Akmal Abdurah
OBJECTIVE:
I have more than a decade of experience in software development. Experience includes building applications
for web, desktop and mobile platforms. Full stack engineer with extensive application engineering experience
at all layers (database, services, business, and user interface). Strong in software design and coding and
proficient in multiple programming languages and technologies. Highly adaptable in changing technical
environments and shifting priorities with strong organizational and analytical skills.
EDUCATION:
 9/2000 - 12/2002Computer Science, Temple UniversityUS-Philadelphia
Master's Degree
 9/1990 - 6/1996Addis Ababa University
Bachelor's Degree
SKILLS:
Skill NameSkill Level
C#Intermediate
Javascript Intermediate
AJAX (jQuery) Intermediate
XMLIntermediate
SQLIntermediate
ASP.NET MVCIntermediate
Web ServicesIntermediate
C++Intermediate
JavaIntermediate
Spring MVCIntermediate
.NetIntermediate
AngularJSIntermediate
NodeJSIntermediate
EXPERIENCE:
Company Confidential: Senior Software Engineer 5/2015 - Present
Industry: Computer/IT Services
Architected a web based survey collection application and lead its implementation. App is used by the
department of education to conduct nationwide teacher's assessment of reading, writing, math and science
subjects. Has rich user interface and optimized for all major device types and platforms. Highly responsive
web app built using latest web technologies (AngularJs, HTML5/CSS3, ASP.Net Web API). Was personally
responsible for the implementation of the following major components and sub-systems. The item viewer
component which is responsible for rendering a questionnaire's content based on item meta data. The backend
restful services which are used for accessing survey meta data and content.
This resume submitted by Lauren Manago
949.783.3638 | Lauren.Manago@CyberCoders.com
Akmal Abdurahman
Comscore, Inc.: Lead Software Engineer7/2014 - 5/2015
Industry: Internet Services
Worked as a technical lead in building the back-end services for the company’s key web analytics products.
Lead the development of the sample management service which analyzes advertisement exposure data from
various sources. Service runs on a cluster and processes about a terabyte of data every day. Lead the
development of a highly customizable survey analysis engine which analyzes survey data collected from
various sources.
Naveos: Senior Software Engineer 5/2013 - 6/2014
Industry: Computer Software
Lead the design and implementation of a customizable data analytics engine which aggregates and analyzes
data from various sources the results of which are subsequently used by data mining tools and reports.
Added major enhancements to the company’s core SaaS product including new data mining tools and
reports.
J. Spargo and Associates: Sr. Web Developer 12/2010 - 4/2013
Industry: Business Services - Other
Lead a team of developers in building a flexible and customizable web based enterprise event management
system. System is used by users to setup events, manage various event related activities, and publish
customized public facing websites through which attendees can register for events and make hotel
reservations. Implemented the templating engine used for rendering customized UI components based on
public facing website configuration. Helped coordinate development efforts among local and offshore
developers.
REI Systems: Sr. Software Engineer 11/2009 - 12/2010
Industry: Computer Software
Worked as a technical lead in the enhancements and maintenance of a large scale enterprise web based
grants management application. Lead the enhancement and streamlining of two major modules of the
system. Designed and implemented various re-usable components used across multiple applications.
Siemens Medical Solutions: Software Engineer 10/2006 - 11/2009
Industry: Healthcare Services
A key developer in the syngo radiology workflow and imaging product group. Participated in the design and
implementation of two major releases of the syngo product suite. Designed and implemented the integration
of the workflow system with third party Imaging and voice recognition systems.
Gateway Applied Systems: Software Developer 11/2002 - 10/2006
Industry: Biotechnology/Pharmaceuticals
Help develop a suite of software products for automating the acquisition, analysis and management of EKG
data during clinical trials??? Designed and implemented major enhancements to the EKG acquisition and
analysis module, a soft real-time program used for reading and analyzing a continuous stream of EKG waves.
??? Developed an EKG analysis module used in statistical analysis of large sets of EKG data collected from
multiple sources over an extended period of time. Developed an EKG Inspection module used to review, edit
and reanalyze existing EKG data. Built a web application for managing and setting up clinical trials
This resume submitted by Lauren Manago
949.783.3638 | Lauren.Manago@CyberCoders.com
Akmal Abdurahman