Professional Summary
Ambitious Software Engineer specializing in web application development with over 10 years of progressive experience
in managing all facets of software development lifecycle for public sector agencies such as Department of Housing and
Urban Development, Social Security Administration, and National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA).
Expertise in analyzing business requirements and designing, developing, testing, implementing, and enhancing J2EE
applications. Seeking to leverage expertise to take next career step in a challenging position with an organization
offering opportunities for professional growth.
Highlights
Requirements Gathering and Documentation	System Architecture
Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC)		Java 2 Platform, Enterprise Edition (J2EE)
Technical Writing
Experience

VALIDATEK, Washington, DC – 2015 to Mar 2016.  
Department of housing and urban development( HUD)

Senior Developer 
Provided engineering support  to a team of five to support iNtegrated Assessment Subsystem – Public Housing
Assessment System (NASS-PHAS) for Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD).
Delivered engineering support when building, deploying, configuring, and supporting systems.

Collaborated with Senior QA Lead and product owner to design, develop, document, test, debug, and add new
features to J2EE application.

Evaluated operational feasibility by examining project analysis, identifying problem, defining and gathering
requirements, and proposing and developing solutions.

Created technical specifications based on conceptual design and business requirements.

Used JMS queue to send messages between distributed applications, and used SQL to create stored procedures
and scripts for data manipulation and retrieval.
Achievements 
Added utility tool to NASS-PHAS to allow NASS administrators to produce PHAS scores during financial and
management score generation exceptions.

Implemented stored procedures to classify audited/unaudited financial submission types, determine
audited/unaudited approval for given fiscal year, and query field office email addresses dynamically from
database.

Environment: Java, J2EE, ibatis, weblogic, JSP, Spring, Struts 2.0, JMS queue, Oracle, PL/Sql, webservice, jasper report 
                                        

Data Transformation Corp., Silver Spring, MD — 2014 to 2015
 
Senior Developer  
Provided engineering support to J2EE collection and litigation system application with CDI web framework and
JPA technologies.

Rewrote application to refactor source code and run on JBOSS 7 while achieving compliance with Java 7 and
JPA requirements.

Upgraded financial module and added new feature to allow users to correct and modify original debt amounts in
accounts after initiation of collection activities.
worked with development team to debug application and complete application module enhancement.

Environment: Java, J2EE,JPA, JBOSS, JSP, Servlet, CDI, EJB,JMS queue, Postgres, SQL, CSS, Display Tag, Jasper report

EARTH RESOURCES TECHNOLOGY, Silver Spring, MD — 2012 to 2014
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration(NOAA)
 
Senior Developer  
Collaborated with government IT staff to create two scientific dynamic web applications to support Center for
Operational Oceanographic Products and Services (CO-OPS) at National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration (NOAA).

Designed and developed NOAA Current Prediction website offering expanded tidal predictions for stations in
NOAA's published tide and current tables; created plot generating module and dataset download link for website.

Converted static website showing sea level trend plots to US and global stations to data driven dynamic website;
produced Spring framework-based website, used Bootstrap to create mobile ready website interface, and wrote
SQL and stored data procedures to retrieve data used to generate plots embedded on website.

Environment: Java, J2EE,Spring JBDC template,Spring, Struts, JSP, Servlet, hibernate,Sybase, bootstrap,Tomcat, SQL, CSS, Display Tag, Rest web services 


MEDICAL SCIENCE & COMPUTING, Bethesda, MD — 2012 to 2012
 National Library of Medicine (NLM)

Software Engineer 
Coordinated with four developers and a project manager to support RxNorm system used to generate normalized
names for clinical drugs; worked with project manager, two database developers, and a senior Java developer to
add enhancements and debug application.
Delivered operational support and ran RRF file to generate weekly RxNorm release files.
Maintained and added new features to J2EE application used by National Library of Medicine (NLM).

Environment: Java, J2EE,EJB2, JSP, Ajax,Servlet, SQL, CSS, Display Tag, Tomcat, Jrun, Oracle

RESOLVIT LLC, Washington, DC — 2011 to 2012
 DC Courts 

Senior Developer, DC Courts 
Led all facets of software development lifecycle to add new features to three web voucher systems for Court of
Appeals, Superior Court, and Multi-Door Dispute Resolution.
Implemented enhancements to applications using Struts 1.3 and TopLink.
Enhanced Superior Court's user interface by adding menu using JQuery and Ajax.

 Environment: Java, J2EE,Toplink, Weblogic,Jquery JSP, Struts,Oracle, Ajax, SQL, CSS, Display Tag


ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY SYSTEMS COMPANY, Rockville, MD — 2006 to 2011
 National Cancer Institute (NCI-NIH)

Software Developer Consultant 
Provided production support during development of new J2EE websites and complex and critical applications for
National Cancer Institute (NCI).
Participated in requirement analysis, modeling, development, and testing of web application in Java/J2EE
environment.
Collaborated with project manager and architect to rewrite intramural application to improve performance and
eliminate dependency on LDAP to query intramural research personnel information.
Maintained intramural J2EE application used by NCI internal scientists in Cancer Epidemiology and Genetics
(DCEG) Department to document research and generate annual reports for National Institutes of Health (NIH).
Developed and re-architected application to meet business objectives and requirements.
Designed J2EE application to support Paperwork Reduction Act (PRA) support various divisions within NIH.
Devised enhanced use lease (EUL) based on user requirements using Discoverer Administrator; resolved
issues with Discoverer reporting tool.
Environment :Java, J2EE,SOAP Webservice,Hibernate, LDAP, Discoverer, JDBC, Struts 1, Struts 2, Spring, Jrun, JSP, Servlet, SQL, CSS, Display Tag, Oracle

LOCKHEED MARTIN, Baltimore, MD — 2005 to 2006
 Social Security Administration (SSA)

Software Engineer 
Analyzed user requirements and worked with usability team to design and develop prototype application for Social
Security Administration (SSA) using Struts framework and WebSphere Application Server, and produced internet
standards reference guides for other developers within SSA.

Partnered with usability team to test prototype application accessibility for developers with physical disabilities.
Executed object-oriented analysis and object-oriented design of existing systems.
 Environment:  Java, J2EE,Sql Server, Websphare , SQL, CSS, ASP, Struts


Education
Bachelor of Computer Science : Software Engineering
University of Windsor - Windsor, ON

IBM Certified Specialist – Rational Unified Process v2003 

How to Gather and Document User Requirements, TwentyEighty Strategy Execution and The George Washington
University School of Business and Public Management
Building XML Web Services with Java: Hands-On, Learning Tree International
Technical Skills
J2EE, J2SE, Multitier/N-Tier Architecture, Hibernate, Spring, Struts 1 and 2, Lightweight Directory Access Protocol
(LDAP), Relational Database Management System (RDBMS), SQL Server, Apache Tiles, Apache Web Server, Oracle
10g/11g, Oracle Database, Oracle Discoverer, Oracle Designer, UNIX, RUP, JRUN/Tomcat, JavaScript, HTML, XML,
XSD, DTD, CSS, Eclipse, JDeveloper, NetBeans, UML Diagrams, Subversion (SVN), CVS, Clearquest, iBATIS,
JBOSS 7, Bootstrap, JFreeChart, Sybase, Postgres
