DINESH MAHARJAN
Seeking challenges as a Java Developer position in building Enterprise software products
 Over 5+ years of experience in software industry involving in the design, development,
testing, deploy, optimization and implementation of various software applications
 Excellent programming skills in JAVA and J2EE technology, including JDBC, Enterprise Java Beans,
Servlets, JSP, JSF, JMS, XML, Web Services
 Good knowledge of Web application development technologies such as HTML, HTML5, JavaScript,
jQuery, CSS, LESS, SASS, AJAX, JSON
 Experience in using the latest approaches, including MVC, MVP, event-driven applications
 Strongly experienced in developing large internet related applications using Spring, GWT, Struts,
Hibernate, Maven, Ant
 Substantial familiarity in Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) using the Java Web Services protocols
like REST, SOAP, WSDL and UDDI
 Expertise in databases like Oracle, Teradata, DB2, SQL Server, MySQL and MS Access
 Experience in web servers like Tomcat, WebLogic, JBoss, GlassFish and WebSphere
 Experienced in the analysis and design of applications using OOAD techniques, Rational Rose Use
Cases and Design Patterns
 Goal Driven Developer with comprehensive understanding of various software development
approaches such as Agile, Iterative, Spiral, TDD and Waterfall
 Expertise in tools like Toad, SqlDeveloper, jUnit, Log4j , CVS, SVN, ClearCase, Report Generator
 Experienced in using Integrated Development Environment (IDE) like Eclipse, NetBeans, JDeveloper
Studio, IntelliJ, MyEclipse, Talend Integration Suite, Spring Tool Suite
 Extensive use of documentation tools like Confluence and bug tracking tools like Jira and QC
 Experienced in working on different operating systems like Windows, Linux and Unix
 Strong team player with good interpersonal skills and communication abilities
 Multi-cultured Team Player with complete flexibility to work independently as well as in a team and
have quick grasping capabilities to work with the newly emerging technologies
Technical Skills:
Languages: Java, C, C++, C#, SQL and PL/SQL
Java Technologies: JDK7, J2EE, JDBC, Servlets, JSP, JSF, JMS, Java Beans
Web Technologies:HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, AJAX
Framework:AngularJs, NodeJs
Debugging Tools:Firebug, Chrome Debugger Tools
Java Frameworks: SpringMVC, Struts, GWT, Hibernate, JUnit, Ant, Maven
Databases: Oracle, DB2, MS SQL Server, MYSQL and Teradata
IDE/Development Tools: Eclipse, NetBeans, JDeveloper
This resume submitted by Lauren Manago
949.783.3638 | Lauren.Manago@CyberCoders.com
Dinesh Maharjan
Web/Application Servers: Tomcat, WebLogic, IBM WebSphere, JBoss, GlassFish
Version Controls:SVN, CVS, ClearCase
Operating Systems: Microsoft Windows, Linux and UNIX
Education
Masters of Science, Computer Science2014
Maharishi University of ManagementFairfield, IA
Bachelors in Information Management2007
Tribhuvan UniversityKathmandu, Nepal
Professional Experience:
GENERAL DYNAMICS INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY, Towson, MD
Nov 2014 – Jun 2016
Sr. Java Developer
General Dynamics Information Technology (GDIT) is the leading IT Solution provider for the US Government
and other business organizations. The major software solutions covers domain of Defense, Next Generation
911 and Health Care. I was involved in one of its Health Care project – Fraud, Waste and Abuse Prevention.
This application helps government to control fraud that occurs in Health Insurance where Health Care
providers may charge knowingly or unknowingly. STARS-Informant is the part of the solutions suite where I
was involved to build the tool to generate report based on huge data across the country. The whole
development process happened in the secure environment.
Role:
 Involved in exploring the legacy application built in PowerBuilder
 Get the requirements to convert this legacy application to new web-based application
 Extensive use of Scrum to keep development process highly efficient
 Wrote Scrum stories for the development requirements
 Coded the Login, Diagnosis code look up, registration, authorization, and export report for customers
using jQuery, AJAX, JSP, HTML5, CSS, and JavaScript
 Coding new JSPs, modifying existing JSPs as per the design and updating the web.xml
 Worked with session time out issue in AJAX call
 Use Java EE as backend service along with Spring Framework for Dependency injection
 Used EJBs in the application and developed Session beans to house business logic at the middle tier level
 Used the light weight container of the Spring Framework to provide architectural flexibility for
inversion of controller (IOC)
 Used Spring AOP for cross cutting concerns and IOC for dependency injection.
 Merged codes on Branches and trunk using SVN
 Use Teradata as database to store huge amount of data
 Use STARS widget – JavaScript library build exclusively for this project
 Use JBOSS as application server
 Extensive use of AJAX calls to get data and HTML for frontend
 Used GRUNT.js for JavaScript automation
 Used Model-View-Controller (MVC) architecture
This resume submitted by Lauren Manago
949.783.3638 | Lauren.Manago@CyberCoders.com
Dinesh Maharjan
 Implementing Angular JS and MVC Framework for data access and rendering in templates
 Involved in helping team members to debug issues with the application and designed and prepared Unit
test case using JUnit and Log4j, and removed the maximum bugs before passing on the application to the
QA team
 Documented design and development procedures
Environment:
 JavaScript, jQuery, Angular JS, HTML, CSS, JAVA EE, Teradata, JBOSS, Spring Framework, jUnit,
EhCache, Maven, Eclipse, SVN, Windows 2007, UNIX as server
This resume submitted by Lauren Manago
949.783.3638 | Lauren.Manago@CyberCoders.com
Dinesh Maharjan
MERCEDES-BENZ RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT NORTH AMERICA, Sunnyvale, CA
Jun 2012 – Oct 2014
Java Developer
MBRDNA is the part of Multinational company Daimler, the owner of Mercedes-Benz. MBRDNA residing in
Silicon Valley CA is the center point of talents doing research and development for its high-end cars. As a part
of Application Development Group, I was involved in acquiring, developing and delivering high-end apps for
Mercedes-Benz cars of all class. Now, Mercedes-Benz cars are being enjoyed with all infotainment needs such
as weather, internet radio, facebook, stocks, flight status to all kinds of apps including parking, traffic camera,
restaurant search, hotel search.
Role:
 Finding needs of the end users in their high-end cars
 Acquiring service from Content Provider to deliver high-tech service
 Build framework using Java EE and Spring Framework to accommodate all apps into web project
 Involved in Integration of Modules
 Design apps specification and HMI
 Participated in estimating the hours for the project
 Designed and developed User Interface of application modules using HTML, CSS and JavaScript,
JQuery, and AJAX
 Designed and Developed Business Process layer components and integrated with Spring Framework
 Spring framework’s dependency injection and AOP features were extensively used
 Developed apps in MVC pattern with controllers, services and database objects
 Wrote code to fetch data from REST APIs in NodeJs, using AJAX via JSON response and updating the
HTML pages
 Responsible for creating the screens with table less design following W3C standards Developed XSL
Style sheets using XSLT and XPath for web publishing of the XML based content
 Junit testing of all functionalities within each app
 Used GWT for front end debugging
 Used maven to build Application
 Managed source repository using SVN for version control tool
 Used Log4J to create log files to debug as well as trace application
 Documenting each part of the code for reference
 Prepared documentation and participated in preparing user’s manual for the application
 Optimized the apps performance after delivery of the products
 Ongoing improvements and maintenance
Environment:
Java, STS IDE, WSO2 IDE, Spring, Microsoft SQL Server, Tomcat, Maven, SVN, XML, AJAX, CSS, Javascript,
GWT, RESTful web service, Node.js, SOAP web service, Windows, CentOS
This resume submitted by Lauren Manago
949.783.3638 | Lauren.Manago@CyberCoders.com
Dinesh Maharjan
PEARSON EDUCATION, Upper Saddle River, NJ
Sep 2011 – May 2012
Java Developer
Pearson Education is one of the leading book publisher companies in the world. It has branches all over the
world. Pearson Education has number of intranet and internet web applications for its day-to-day activities. I
was involved in DIA (Data Integration Architecture) Project which is my second project in this company. This
project is all about data integration hub that supports integration of high data volumes from heterogeneous
data sources in different formats through various communication protocols, and accurately preparing data
for reliable consumption by multiple consumer systems. DIA is implementing the ETLD; Extract (E), Transform
(T), Load (L), and Deliver (D) architectural pattern for data integration. DIA uses Talend Integration Suite for
data extraction and transform, Oracle database for loading data and JMS for guaranteed message delivery to
various consumer systems using publish-subscribe model.
Role:
 Development of web-based search functionality of data using struts
 Wrote extensive XHTML, CSS3 and JavaScript code to build dynamic pages using Eclipse.
 Used AJAX & JSON communication for accessing Restful web services data payload.
 Designed a single-page website that uses BackboneJS for front end which passes JSON data back.
 Involved in Talend jobs development using Java and J2EE, and export using Talend Open Studio.
 Deployment of code in Deployment Server using Ant.
 Testing Deployed code using different input data.
 Use of Bamboo to build and deploy the code.
 Use of Oracle Database and tools such as SQL Developer, SQLplus to verify data load in database
using stored procedure.
 Extensive use of complex queries to insert, update, delete and find data in database.
 Involved in documentation of Code Development and Deployment.
 Preparing Deployment Plan in Production Environment.
 Use of JMS and Weblogic for message delivery.
 Extensive use of XML and XSLT for message delivery to various consumer systems.
Environment:
Java, Talend Open Studio and Talend Integration Suite, Ant, JMS, WebLogic Application Server 11g, Oracle
11g, Struts, CSS3, JavaScript, Backbone.js, XML, XSLT, Eclipse Indigo, Clearcase, Windows XP, Windows Server
2003, UNIX.
PEARSON EDUCATION, Upper Saddle, River, NJ
Mar 2011 – Aug 2011
Java Developer
Pearson Education is one of the leading book publisher companies in the world. It has branches all over the
world. Pearson Education has number of intranet and internet web applications for its day-to-day activities. I
was involved in Argos Project which provides Single-Sign-On (SSO) to all of the web-based applications within
Pearson. For this project, we use Oracle as database for storing user information and RSA Cleartrust for
identity and access management. Involved in developing customized framework in which each of the
applications has their own look and feel for Single Sign On.
Role:
 Participated in development of a well responsive single page application
This resume submitted by Lauren Manago
949.783.3638 | Lauren.Manago@CyberCoders.com
Dinesh Maharjan
 Involved in the analysis & design of the application using UML with Rational Rose
 Object Oriented Analysis and Design using UML include development of class diagrams, Sequence
diagrams, and State diagrams and implemented these diagrams in Microsoft Visio.
 Developed the customized framework with Java EE to handle the requests and responses.
 Designed and developed JSP pages with Websphere.
 Involved in writing client side validations using JavaScript.
 Wrote code to ensure that the application is cross browser compatibility (IE7+ and Firefox) as per
the requirements.
 Involved in the design of the Referential Data Service module to interface with various databases
including DB2 as central database using JDBC.
 Responsible for creating web service using WSDL for maintaining users’ information between central
database and application database as Identity Management.
 Involved in agent installation and configuration in different web servers for Access Management
 Developed and configured using Tomcat and Apache HTTP.
 Involved in designing test plans, test cases and overall Unit testing of the system.
 Prepared documentation and participated in preparing user manual for the application.
Environment:
Java, JSP, JDBC, EJB, DB2, RSA Cleartrust, HTML, Javascript, CSS, XML, UML, Rational Rose, Eclipse 3.5, JUnit,
JIRA, SVN, Websphere, Windows XP, Windows 2003 Server, Microsoft Visio, Uni