Juanyong Zhang
SUMMARY:
11 years of versatile experience in the field of Information Technology, Proficiency in Requirement Analysis, Designing & Developing
Internet applications using different programming techniques and Object Oriented Analysis. Eager and highly motivated to master
new technologies and gain new skills.
Github Profile: https://github.com/JuanyongZhang/
SKILLS:
 High-End Application Software:
Websphere Portal, Liferay Portal, Alfresco CMS system
 Java: Spring, Boot, Seam, JEE, Web Services, Hibernate, JPA
 UI: AngularJS, Anglar2, TypeScript, jQuery
 Microsoft: PowerShell, DSC
 PaaS: Bluemix, CloudFoundry, AWS,
DOCKER:
 Cognitive: IBM Watson
 Build Tools: MAVEN, Gradle, Ant, Nexus, Hudson, Jenkins, UML, ER-Diagram, jBPM, Gulp, NPM, WebPack
 Middleware: Webshpere, WebLogic, Glassfish, Tomcat, JBoss
 Database: DashDB, Oracle, DB2, SQL Server, MongoDB
 BigData: Hadoop, Spark
 SCM: SVN, CVS, GIT
 Testing: JUnit, Selenium, Testing
WORKING EXPERIENCE:
Perficient: Lead Tech Consultant 2014/7 - Present
Project- PacificLife: Lead Tech Consultant
 Provisioning Pacificlife WebSphere Portal (WP) and Form Experience Builder (FEB) Server Environments for Pacificlife
Straighup project. The automation of provisioning Pacificlife WP and FEB server environments will based on the following
platforms:
 PowerShell Desired State Configuration (DSC) based scripting for implementing the automation for provisioning their
WCM/FEB environments
 Jenkins as orchestration engine and central point to launch the automation tasks, which will be able to build (GIT PS/DSC
code), package (copy/paste PS/DSC code to target node), deploy (run PS/DSC code on target node) either by browser GUI
 Project is open sourced on Github, Forking and Commitment is Welcomed https://github.com/JuanyongZhang
 Developing DSC modules for Provisioning and configuring WebSphere/Portal/Form ExpBuilder/DB2
 Developing Provisioning Script in PowerShell
 Configure the Jenkins Groovy Pipeline Jobs and Slave nodes
 Documentation and Production support
Environment:
Powershell5, DSC, Jenkins, Groovy, WebSphere, WebSphere Portal, WCM, Forms ExpBuilder, git
Project- IBM Jan 16 - May 16
Nielsen IBM Watson: Lead Tech Consultant
 The Nielsen Watson aims to provide Brand Managers with a fast and convenient way to get insight into their market and
store level, structured data for their brands. Brand managers can ask Watson about their Brands, Sub-brands, Regions,
Channels, Retailers and Stores to see how they are growing or declining or to identify trends among similar characteristics.
This resume submitted by Lauren Manago
949.783.3638 | Lauren.Manago@CyberCoders.com
Juanyong Zhang
Brand Managers can also ask questions that derive from data from an external service, Insights for Twitter, which provide
unstructured/structured data from a social outlet.
 Design and developed Orchestration layer in Microservices Pattern
 Developed Data Access layer with Watson/Alchemy/Insign API in Data repository pattern
 Develop Spark python script for data drilling
 Dockerized the Orchestration App, Eureka registry, Console Application.
 Project is deployed and hosted in Bluemix with bluemix and cloudfoundry commands.
Environment:
User Interface: Angular2, D3, TopoJSON, WebPack
Orchestration (OL): Microservices, Docker, Bluemix, Spring-Boot, Spring framework, Cloudfoundry. Cognitive: IBM Watson Dialog and
NLC, DashDB, Insights for Twitter
Project- Florida BCBS July 15 - Jan 2016
MWS - Member Web Services: Lead Tech Consultant
 Member Web Services is new designed responsive web portal, which serves FL blue's member.
 It is hosted by IBM WebSphere Portal, and WCM. Implemented by AngularJS, Boostrap, Foundation, Springframework,
JSR286, Script Portlet.
 Designed 3 layers AngularJS application with TypeScript
 Developed interceptor for populating the restful request header
 Encapsulated the Angular-Resource layer for restful CURD calls
 Encapsulated the Angular2 application in IBM Script Portlet
 Developed Restful Services with Springframework.
Project- Kaiser Permanente May 15 - July 15
ACAA - Access Care Anywhere Anytime: Lead Tech Consultant
 Access Care Anywhere Anytime is the next generation Member Portal of KP.org, it is targeting for providing better user
experience and responsive display.
 The Responsive web application is using AngularJS, jQuery and Bootstrap, programming in TypeScript, built by Npm and
Gulp, dependencies are managed by Bower, TDD is implemented by Jasmine/Karma
 The SOA Service application is utilizing Spring framework and Jersey.
 Designed 3 layers AngularJS application with TypeScript
 Developed interceptor for populating the restful request header
 Developed the Jasmine test cases.
 Encapsulated the Angular-Resource layer for restful CURD calls
 Developed Gulp script which features with live reload, environment configuration, flexible bower dependencies
management.
Project- HCSC Jul 14 - May 15
CAEP - Customer Advocate Portal: Lead Tech Consultant
 Customer Advocate Portal is an add-on application of HCSC's SIEBEL system, which provides all-in-one dashboard to
address caller's information and provider facility for customer representatives to document and note call log.
 Designed and developed JSR 286 compliant portlets
 Designed and developed the Generic Type JAX-RS JSON client with Apache Wink(IBM Embedded)
 Designed and developed the Restful Portlet with Spring framework
 Implemented WebSphere Portal 8.5 theme
 Utilizing BackboneJS, UnderscoreJS, HandlebarJS, and jQuery for client side scripting
 Asynchronous portlet loads using REST services returning JSON
Cognizant Technology Solution: J2EE/Portal Specialist Dec 05 – July 14
Project- CareFirst, Inc. Nov 10 - Jul 14
Shared Business Services, SBS: Tech Leader/Architect
 SBS is serving as an Enterprise Gap service in CareFirst. In the front end, it provides SOAP and JSON services for Member
Portal, Provider Portal, Employer Portal, Hipaa BlueExchange, CareFirst Direct and Mobile Application; for the back end, it
This resume submitted by Lauren Manago
949.783.3638 | Lauren.Manago@CyberCoders.com
Juanyong Zhang
has webservice access for Facets, Fep and internal Tibco services, JMS access for Nasco, and traditional hibernate access
layer for the MD, DE, and Flexx data in DB2.
 SBS is developed using Spring framework, JAX-WS, JSON, ehcache, Hibernate, JMS, Maven; SBS is a multi-tiers application
running on IBM WebSphere Application Server.
 Be responsible for overall SBS initiatives.
 Requirement gatherings by participating in fusion meetings along with the Business analysts and mapping them to the
technical implementations.
 Estimations, Timelines, resource management, release management and testing support planning and execution.
 Development of applications using Spring IOC, AOP, JAX-WS.
 Developing the client interface using Spring MVC, Web and WS.
 Integrated Application to consume SOAP services.
 Used Maven for building the application.
 Hudson is utilized for continuous integration build, and staging release.
 Sonatype Nexus is used for release artifacts repository.
 Tracking and managing defects by HP Quality Center.
 Peer review of the development and release maintenance of all the artifacts.
 Handling Change management and enhancement tracks for production changes.
Environment: IBM Websphere Application Server, JAX-WS, DB2, DBVisualizer, IBM Rational Application Developer
Project- Member Portal www.carefirst.com: Tech Leader/Architect
 Member Portal is a set of WebSphere Portal Applications supporting CareFirst Members, which provides the
functionalities of member eligibilities, coverage, benefit, claims, accumulations and etc...
 Member Portal is developed using Spring framework, Soap, JSON, JSP, JMS, and Maven.
 Actively involved in Member Portal Application Development and Enhancement Projects
 Designing and Development of JSR-286 WebSphere Portlets by using Spring Portlet MVC framework.
 Developing the client interface using JSP, Servlets, jQuery, ext-js server side code
 Designed and developed a set of JSON parser for consuming the JSON and XML responses
 Integrated the Frontend Portal Applications with backend Services
 Used Maven for building the application.
 Hudson is utilized for continuous integration build, and staging release.
 Sonatype Nexus is used for release artifacts repository.
 Tracking and managing defects by HP Quality Center.
 Peer review of the development and release maintenance of all the artifacts.
 Handling Change management and enhancement tracks for production changes.
Environment: IBM Websphere Portal, Spring WS Client, IBM Rational Application Developer
Project- Build Automation: Tech Leader/Architect
 Build Automation project is targeting at:
 Migrating WebSphere J2EE Applications and WebSphere Portal Applications' builders from Ant to Maven.
 Utilizing the Hudson for scheduled and on-demand build tasks, programmatic workflow of build and deploy to staging
environment.
 Design and develop the CareFirst enterprise POM structures.
 Define and develop the on-demand CareFirst Achetypes.
 Using the Nexus for the release artifact repository.
 Adapting and enforcing the sonatype suggested release workflow.
 Replace the commercial Rational Application Developer with Eclipse, for each license one year saving is $3,500
 Design and customize the continuous integration strategy based on CareFirst situation.
 Define and the CareFirst Release Procedure, and conducting the training sessions.
 Design and develop the websphere-portal-plugin, which could deploy WebSphere J2EE applications and WebSphere Portal
Applications.
 Customize the eclipse: install the m2e plugin, setup the m2e with CareFirst in house nexus and archetype catalogs
 Created? the one-key script, which will setup developer's IDE and developing environment
This resume submitted by Lauren Manago
949.783.3638 | Lauren.Manago@CyberCoders.com
Juanyong Zhang
Environment: Maven, Hudson, Nexus, IBM XML Access, WebSphere ANT
Project- Role Lifecycle Management: Tech Leader/Architect
 The Role Life Cycle is an online WebSphere Portal applications which helps you create and manage your team's
 Mandatory Role and Functional Roles. These terms are explained in the related PowerPoint presentation. Keep in mind that
this tool is only for managing the role definitions, not for managing user access. Therefore, you can only use this tool to
define and submit the Roles. Once the Roles are submitted, the Information Security team will review the roles and deploy
them into the security system (in the Production environment). Only then will these roles take effect and be available for
the manager to request assignment of such roles.
 RLCM is implemented by WebSphere Portal compliance Portlet technologies, Spring Framework, SOAP WebServices,
 Architectured and designed a series of JSR268 standard Websphere portlet applications
 Designing and Development of JSR-286 WebSphere Portlets by using Spring Portlet MVC framework.
 Discuss with Business Analyst and finalized the System Design Document
 Developed a series of portlet projects in form of maven multi module project
 Developing the client interface using JSP, Servlets, jQuery server side code
 Automated the entire build process by developed Websphere portal maven plugin thereby saving 90% of the time taken by
the manual process
 Designed and implemented an ActionCenter component that could flexibly address the access control in conditions of
different process period, user role, and global settings
 Utilized the Flying Saucer and iText to generate the HTML like PDFs
Environment: IBM Websphere Portal, Spring WS Client, IBM Rational Application Developer
Project- Wellpoint, Inc.: J2EE Developer Nov 09 - Nov 10
 Employer Portal is Web Portal Application for supporting Wellpoint Employer customers, it handles of the functionalities of
account management, add/modify consultant users, bill and invoice inquire.
 Designed and developed a Websphere portlets with Spring, hibernate, Webservices and JMS
 Designed and implemented services result wrapper, which is being used as part of their roll-out of J2EE applications.
 Managing the enhancement and bug fixing of online applications
 Participles in daily development
 Created scripts for Clearcase branch initiative and merge
 Instrumental for release cycle and production deployment
Environment: Websphere Portal 6.1, JMS, JAX-RPC, JSR168/268, Spring MVC, Spring IOC, RAD
Project- RISI, Inc.: Tech Leader Apr 08 - Nov 09
 Conference Website is a press release website for RISI inc's conference, the website is served by Apache http server, and
web content and template is managed by Alfresco WCM.
 Developed a website in compliance with Web 2.0 standards using Alfresco WCM (web content management)
 Created XSLT for press release content template
 Developed the on demand wizard for compose and publish content
 Configured Alfresco WCM with Apache http server for deployment
Environment: Alfresco WCM, XSLT, Apache http server, UNIX
Project- Company Profile: Tech Leader
 Company profile is a spring MVC web application for managing and publish the profile of timber/wood related business
companies, this is a 3 tier Web Application and implemented by JSP/jQuery, Spring MVC, and hibernate.
 Architectured and designed Spring-Hibernate web application in three tier architecture
 Development of application using Spring MVC, IOC, and Hibernate Framework
 Design and create the generic hibernate DAO layer with hibernate annotation
 Developing the client interface using JSP and jQuery
Environment: Tomcat, MySQL, eclipse
Project- EAP - Economic Analyst Portal: Architect
This resume submitted by Lauren Manago
949.783.3638 | Lauren.Manago@CyberCoders.com
Juanyong Zhang
 Economic Analyst Portal is the web version of RISI's Economic Forecast Products offering their customers comprehensive
news, pricing, competitor information and analysis to support strategic and tactical decision-making. By utilizing the
Web2.0 technologies EAP provides the more enhanced features of Contextually data table and charts:
 Chart Comments - The chart comments show how the economic factors influence each element graphed
 Dynamic Graph - The new graphs are clickable so users do not have to look through the table to see the exact graphed value
for each point.
 Customer Graph - User is allow to favite the graphs and customer graph on demand
 Data Formats - The user can view the changed data in four formats.
 Download XLS - Every format of the table is downloadable, so the user can have the data the way they want.
 Related Content - For each data table, graph there is a link to the commentary that describes the economic climate
impacting the table
 Architectured and designed a website in compliance with Web 2.0 standards using Alfresco ECM(enterprise content
management)
 Wrote the System Design Document
 Developed on demand wizard for composing, preview, pre-release, and release the Portal website
 Created and define the custom model and it's behavior in separated qName
 Created a set of JSR170 annotation to access java content repository, in same manner as Hibernate annotation to database
 Developed Freemarker template for rendering the portal page with Alfresco content
 Create a data access layer for query the Sungurad FAME database (Time series database) with TimeIQ api
 Modeled the TimeIQ formula and persistent them in the database for reuse
Environment: Alfresco CMS, Spring, Hibernate, XML/XSL, JSR-170, Lucene, JQuery, Freemarker, MySQL, Fame, Tomcat5.5, Unix
Project- Timber Transaction Price Services: Tech Leader
 Timber Transaction Price Services is a spring MVC web application for querying timber transaction prices , this is a 3 tier
Web Application and implemented by JSP/jQuery, Spring MVC, and hibernate.
 Architectured and designed Spring-Hibernate Java web application in three tier architecture
 Create a sophisticate up-down spring hibernate scaffold, that creates Hibernate command object with pagination, and
sorting and criteria model info from page form data and URL parameters
 Implemented with Spring MVC and IOC
 Implemented hibernate annotation
 Create generic hibernate data access object
Environment: Tomcat, MySQL, eclipse, UNIX
Project- Thomson FindLaw, Inc.: UI Developer/Automated Tester Jul 07 - Apr 08
 FirmSite Content Editor is web tool supporting Findlaw's lawyer firm customer to design, build and publish their firm
website.
 Developed web application pages, dynamic HTML, CSS style sheets, AJAX style, jQuery, YUI
 Setup Continuous Integration environment on Curious control, that collaborates with Ant, junit testcase, selenium testcase,
bugzilla track system
 Designed and model of Jackrabbit repository, defined the data store, file system, search index, security in repository.xml
 Create data access layer to java content repository by JSR170 api
 Convert static website prototypes to website templates by Freemarker
 Use Lucene to build index of data repository, and implement keyword search by Lucene search APIs
 Designed and created selenium testcases for UI integration testing
Environment: Spring, Spring MVC, Hibernate, YUI, Jackrabbit, JSR-170, Lucene, Ant, JUnit, Selenium, XQuery/XPath, DOM/SAX,
Velocity
Project- HealthNet, Inc. Dec 06 - Jun 07
MTM - Medicine Therapy Management: Tech Leader
 Health Net's MTM program helps its Medicare members who have multiple chronic diseases and multiple chronic
medication prescriptions to improve how they take their drugs and potentially decrease their pharmacy expenses.
The application is J2EE web application which implemented by Struts, EJB, iBatis.
This resume submitted by Lauren Manago
949.783.3638 | Lauren.Manago@CyberCoders.com
Juanyong Zhang
 Designed the architectured the Struts, EJB Session bean, iBatis Java web application with 3 three tiers
 Designed a hierarchy of Struts actions, the super action provides the common functions like security check, error page
handle, login redirect, lookup an assembler to create a business object from request and etc., these function will be
performed by an aspect sequence.
 Implemented 2 pivot module as a practice of part programming
 Programming in the EJB2, code generated by xdoclet
 Using dynamic iBatis scripts to access the Oracle database
 Implement the business call by session beans
Environment: Struts, Weblogic, Oracle, JSP, XDoclet, iBatis, EJB2
Project- Cendant Corp. Jul 06 - Nov 06
Content Master Database: Java Developer
 Content Master Database, aka CMDB, is an online web application for Cendant's real estate agents to manage, share and
publish their property information.
 The application is implemented by Struts, Session beans, and JDBC.
 Implemented web layer using Struts MVC framework with Tiles and Menu plugins
 Implemented the business services by EJB Session bean
 Developed the properties’ stream media resource management module
 Developed data access layer with JDBC
Environment: Struts, Weblogic, JDBC, Oracle, JSP
Project- 3M China Dec 05 - May 06
Point of Sale: J2EE Developer
 Implemented web layer using Struts MVC framework with Tiles and Menu plugins
 Developed the warranty inquire module
 Encapsulated the JDBC in a command pattern
Environment: Struts, WebShpere application server, windows server 2003, JDBC, JSP, SQL Server
CERTIFICATIONS & AWARDS:
IBM Certified Solution Developer - WebSphere Portal 7.0 Cognizant Above & Beyond Award 2011
EDUCATION:
Shanghai University - Electric Engineering 2001-2005