This resume submitted by Lauren Manago
949.783.3638 | Lauren.Manago@CyberCoders.com
Niren Bhattarai
Profile:
? Have around 12 years of IT experience in analysis, design, development, Testing, and roll-out of application
software mostly in Telecom, Financial domain and banking sectors.
? Hands on team design software architecture, development support and delivery of different modules within the
common enterprise platform.
? Hands on experience on designing, implementing, customizing Oracle Service Bus (OSB).
? Strong programming and design experience on using Struts, JSF,Spring , Hibernate, JPA, Servlets, JMS,MDB.
? Strong programming experience on using all latest frontend Technologies Angular,React,Node,bootstrap
,DOJO,jquery,jquery UI, HTML,DHTML,CSS3.
? Strong experience on selecting JEE design pattern.
? Hands on experience on SOAP/RESTFUL,JERSEY Web services.
? Strong experiencing using,configuring,customizing web/application servers as Weblogic,
Webspher,JBOSS,Tomcat.
? Sound RDBMS concepts and extensively worked with Oracle 10g, 11g, Sybase.
? Experienced with Unix, Linux operating system and their underlying architecture, setting up services, jobs and
writing/maintaining complex scripts.
? Hands on Experience on Magic Draw, Microsoft Visio to Generate Class Diagrams and Sequence Diagrams.
? Dedicated, hardworking,self motivated with good communication and interpersonal skills.
Academic Qualification:
Fairfield University CT
Masters of Science in Software Engineering (2005-2007).
Technical Skills:
This resume submitted by Lauren Manago
949.783.3638 | Lauren.Manago@CyberCoders.com
Niren Bhattarai
PLATFORM/FRAMEWORK &LANGUAGES Java, J2EE, Struts, JSF,MVC, Spring, JSP, Servlet
FRONTEND TECHNOLOGIES HTML,CSS,CSS3,JQUERY,JQUERY UI ,Angular, Bootstrap,
Node, react, JS
DEBUGGER TOOL Firebug, IE Developer Tool
ORM TOOL Hibernate, Open JPA
TESTING JUNIT, Code Coverage
J2EE DESIGN PATTERN Session Facade, JDO, DAO, MVC,FRONT CONTROLLER,
Factory, Observer
SCRIPT Unix Shell Script (Bash).
TECHNICAL&WEB DESIGNING TOOLS Dreamweaver, Eclipse, Net Beans, RAD
VERSION CONTORL CVS, SVN, Clear Case, GIT.
BUILD TOOL ANT, Maven
WEB SERVICES XML, XSL, SOAP, WSDL, SOAP UI,RESTFUL
SOFTWARE METHODOLOGIES Rational Unified Process (RUP), Object Oriented
Analysis/Design/Programming
PROCESS/VISUALMODELING TOOLS UML, Rational Rose, MS Visio, Magic Draw
WEB & APPLICATION SERVERS Apache Tomcat , BEA Web Logic ,WEB SPHERE
MICROSOFT WINDOW SERVERS Microsoft Windows Server (2000/2003)
DATABASES Oracle, Sybase, MS Access, MS SQL, My SQL
Server2000/2005/2008,SSIS,DTS.
NETWORKING CCNA,LAN/WAN,TCP/IP
OTHER LANGUAGES/FRAME WORK C#, C, C++, .Net Framework.
MS TOOL MS Office, Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and MS Visio.
PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE:
HighPoint Solution Inc. Jan 2016-current
Project: Content Wizard (Content Management System)
Role: Sr. Java/Web Center Developer
The Content Wizard will leverage the Universal Content Management Contributor (UCMC) application, to provide
functionality to support the life cycle, from creation, to deployment, of Marketplace content scripts.
This script development tool will provide the interface to CMS script writers who can log into system, create the script
for CSR(Customer service representative).
1. Designed/Implemented responsive User interface using Angular js for Script writer to create script.
2. Designed/Implemented nodejs file system for script reading and loading into content management.
3. Refactored the existing jQuery code and converted them to Angular.
4. Wrote IDocScript, services, queries, templates in web center.
5. Created/Modified IdocService, Queries in web center.
6. Designed and implemented a track change system that allows writer to see what changes have been made by
others on the content of the script.
7. Worked closely with product managers, back-end web center developers, and CMS writer to implement elegant
and easy to use front-end applications
Environment: Weblogic, Oracle 11g, Angular 1.3, node js, Ajax, bootstrap, Webcenter, UCMC, Git, Stash, Linux.
ActioNet, Inc. June 2014-Dec 2015
Baltimore, MD
This resume submitted by Lauren Manago
949.783.3638 | Lauren.Manago@CyberCoders.com
Niren Bhattarai
Project: CPC(Comprehensive Primary Care)
Role: Sr.java developer
The Comprehensive Primary Care (CPC) initiative is a multi-payer initiative fostering collaboration between public and
private health care payers to strengthen primary care. Medicare will work with commercial and State health insurance
plans and offer bonus payments to primary care doctors who better coordinate care for their patients. Primary care
practices that choose to participate in this initiative will be given resources to better coordinate primary care for their
Medicare patients.
1. Architected/Designed/Implemented a report framework based on spring cron scheduler, hibernate, spring
batch.
2. Designed/Implemented upload/download file system with Spring.
3. Report interface is capable of generating report on Jasper/Excel.
4. Use of Dependency injection and inversion control to make application loosely coupled, flexible and elegant.
5. Designed/Implemented JSP custom tag to maximize the reusability to take care of lot of page navigation and
menu item.
6. Worked on redesign of UI using jQuery, CSS3, Bootstrap, Spring, MVC.
7. Code reviews, refactored as per design artifacts.
Daily Activities: work with QA teams for defect tracking, Scrum, CP6 Production support, JPA entities mapping, maintain
Reference data, DBCR, Unit Testing of each defects for the Release, Code reviews.
Environment: Websphere 8.0, Oracle 11g, JQuery, bootstrap, Spring, MVC, Spring AOP, Target process, Scrum,
Hibernate, Maven. Jasper.
ActioNet, Inc.
Project: FIVS(Financial Voucher System)
Role: Sr.Ja va/Oracle Service Bus(OSB) developer Lead
FIVS is Financial Information Voucher System tool used by CMS management to provide Quality Improve Organizations
(QIOs) with a means of entering and managing monthly invoice information. In addition FIVS provides CMS with the
ability to review and verify/deny the invoice.
1. Lead a small team with task allocations, provide supervision and help whenever needed.
2. Designed and architected OSB domain within the underlying design principle of CMS (HealthCare).
3. Implemented oracle service bus to support FIVS to communicate in CMS Service oriented Architecture.
4. Refactored/updated the existing web service client to communicate to OSB.
5. Implemented error handling, message flow.
6. Tooke a leadership on design and implement Proxy service and business services.
7. Configured and implemented OSB Routing from proxy to multiple business services.
8. Package the OSB customization and handed over to client middleware team to deploy the OSB package into
their environment.
9. Designed/Implemented JSF filter implements Servlet Filter to handle business for various users/roles for
different navigation.
10. Implemented various custom JSF validators, composite component.
Environment: JBOSS, JSF 2.0, Oracle 11g, OSB 11.1.1.7, XPath, JSF, Jasper report, Ajax, JQuery, DOJO, JSF tag.
Lockheed Martin Sept 2011-June 2014
Baltimore MD
Project: DCPS(Disability Case Processing System)
Role: Sr. Java/J2EE developer Lead
The main goal of the project is to create a web-based claims processing system for all states that is fully integrated with
current SSA processes. Until now, the SSA has had to maintain separate systems for 54 different sites, both state and
federal. The streamlining, upgrading, and integration of these sites will allow for greater speed in processing cases, with
a total goal of 4 million cases annually. By centralizing their disability case processing systems, the Social Security
This resume submitted by Lauren Manago
949.783.3638 | Lauren.Manago@CyberCoders.com
Niren Bhattarai
Administration expects to save money spent on system maintenance and upkeep.
? Lead the dashboard team to design/implement the dashboard of the whole application DCPS.
? Participated on design, code reviews, and performances.
? Design a complete low level design for Dashboard and To-do list interface.
? Used RAD for all UML related activities that includes class diagram, sequence diagram.
? Used Factory design pattern as a design approach for dashboard interface.
? Enhanced/refactored the Case Transfer interface which is implemented on MDB(Message Driven Bean),JAXB
for the History, Auto accept/rejection, follow up.
? Implemented Timer based dashboard interface, which keeps polling the database at given interval upon
activation.
? Designed a Todo List that displays the logged in user of their daily work, upon completion of To-do item, the
item will go to completed if completed or remain in pending if due date of To-do item is changed to any future
date.
? To-do list will be dynamically populated by each business.
? Took the ownership of loading References data for Dashboard, UAT and To-do list.
? Developed Frontend using Custom Tags, JSP, HTML, AJAX, JQUERY, Date Picker, JQUERY UI, Themes, JQUERY
Data tables, JQUERY Tab, JQuery Accordion.
? Implemented JQuery layout using jQuery, CSS.
? Used Struts2 MVC to handle HttpRequest, HttpResonse and mapping.
? Developed and customized the input control for 508 compliances including but NOT limited to HTML Grid
table, JQuery Tab, JQuery Accordion.
? Used Business Delegate Design pattern with Session Bean, Open JPA, EJB 3.0
? Implemented some business logic with the Drools Rules Engine for some interfaces wherever it is required.
? Used DB2 as primary database.
? Used JUNIT and Code coverage.
? Used HP Quality center as Defect tracking system.
Daily Activities: Fixing defects, Scrum, 508 Validation, IE Developer tool, Production support, create/update Entities
Mapping for JPA, taking care of Reference data loading, DBCR, Unit Testing of each defects for the Release.
Environment: 508,Jaws, Java 5.0, JSP, Java Scripts, HTML,JQUERY,DB2,IBM WEBSPHERE,RAD 8.0,SVN Subversion, MKS,
Java Annotations, Drools, EJB 3.0.,Struts 2, Session Bean, Message Driven Bean.
JPMorgan Chase May 2010-Sept 2011
Newark DE
Project: Stars MBS
Role: Java Development/Production Support Lead
STARS MBS is a Fixed Income Mortgage backed securities application where we support the front office and middle
office of MBS trading live application. This application supports different products like Pools, TBAs, ARMS and CMOS. We
have interaction with lots of other applications. It’s a heavy data centric application where millions of trades are entered
on a daily basis. Early morning feeds are received and end of day reports are sent to other applications. Also involves on
call production support which involves resolving production issues of traders and others at the earliest.
? Lead a small development team for managing daily software life cycle including scrum, production support
ticket and assign to right resources.
? Designed, Enhanced and developed new multiple business front end interfaces using JSP, HTML, AJAX, and
JQUERY.
? Provide Production Support on a rotation basis.
? Execute query, generate report, monitoring production logs in Sybase/Unix environment.
? Used Struts as a MVC and JQUERY/JQGRID for client side design.
? Used ClearCase/RCS as a version control tool.
This resume submitted by Lauren Manago
949.783.3638 | Lauren.Manago@CyberCoders.com
Niren Bhattarai
? Used Spring core, Hibernate Annotations, JPA for new Ticket Booking Application for the new enhanced
application.
? Fixed bugs for Shell/Perl script.
? Used SOAP UI to test the Web Service.
? Performed thorough Unit testing for each Bug fixing, enhancement
? Complete assigned and agreed upon deliverables for monthly Stars MBS release.
Activities: Daily Production support, scrum, development status, JIRA fixes, Monitoring production logs, run SQL query
to resolve issues, deploy the build on production on monthly release, Compile all SQL changes and hand over to DBA.
Functional Testing of each JIRAs for the Release.
Environment: Java 5.0, JSP, Java Scripts, JQUERY, HTML, Sybase, Apache Tomcat ,6.0,Unix,ClearCase,Jquery,Shell, Perl,
SQL Spy, BCP, ISQL, JIRA, Spring core, Hibernate Annotations, SVN Tortoise, Axis, RCS
Verizon Jan 2009- May 2010
Tampa, FL
Project: VEGA (Verizon Enterprise Geospatial Application).
Role: Java Development/Production Support
The Verizon Enterprise Geospatial Application (VEGA) vision was to create a ubiquitous, open, and pure Web-based
application in support of Telecommunications OSP (Outside Plant) business needs and additionally leveraging that
environment for other, non-engineering related business opportunities. R&D was carried out during 2006.
Development, using eSpatial’s iSMART, started in earnest in 2007 to address OSP planning functions in support of
Verizon’s FiOS program to provide voice, high-speed internet and video services in a pure fiber network, connected
directly to consumers residence. This tool was deployed late 2007 and is fully available for all Verizon FiOS markets
today.
Responsibilities:
? Developed an Interface that takes millions of address as input from USPS and updates the Address base of Vega
Application that runs on a monthly basis(Cron Scheduler).
? Used Struts as a MVC framework including all features Struts Validator framework, DynaActionForm,
DispatchAction, Struts Tiles.
? Developed JSP, HTML pages using JavaScript and Ajax.
? Wrote Stored Procedure ,Queries/subqueries that perform DML operation deletes/updates the different tables
? Used SQLLDR to load the millions of business data into database.
? Used the IR tracking tool to monitor all the Issues and involved in fixing them.
? Helped Quality Assurance Team to test the backend job in different environment namely SIT(System Integration
Testing),UAT(User Acceptance Testing).
? Monitor all the Logs/Exceptions and report to Manager.
? Debug for Errors/Exception and get it fixed.
? Run the SQL script in UNIX environment using SQLPLUS command for DML operations.
? Used CVS as a version control tool.
? Used heavily SFTP, SSH Client for file transfer between different servers.
? Used commands for manipulation directories and files as well as Cron utility to schedule jobs to run on a
regular basis
? Bouncing server/scheduler in UNIX environment.
? Middleware Installation and brought all the servers UP and Running for development, SIT and UAT.
Daily Activities: Fixing Bugs, taking responsibility to fix bugs, helped UAT (User Acceptance Testing) testing, Monitor
logs/exceptions in different servers, generating report, run SQL scripts, setting up Cron Jobs
Environment: Java 5.0, JSP, Java Scripts, HTML, Oracle 10g, BEAWeblogic 8.1/10.3,PL-SQL,Oracle Sql Developer Tool,
POI, CVS, UNIX, Remedy Tracker,CVS,Struts1.2.
This resume submitted by Lauren Manago
949.783.3638 | Lauren.Manago@CyberCoders.com
Niren Bhattarai
JPMorganChase June 2007-Dec 2008
Tampa,FL
Project: Debt Summary(Intranet application).
Role: Java/j2ee Developer
The primary goal of this project is to automate the monthly report with a front-end interface to the Outstanding Debt
Database(OSD) that allows Sales and Customer Service to easily access data, enter comments and feedback and develop
a history of OSD client behavior.
TS (Treasury Service) Billing Operations creates statements and bills, processes payments and provides support and data
to the markets when clients are delinquent in paying their account analysis (CAP)bills.
Sales contacts clients regarding past due accounts and requests billing operations assistance as required to research
situations as appropriate. Actions are reported and tracked manually through Sales and Operations.
Development Responsibilities:
? Worked in tandem for gathering requirements with the Business Analysis team and the end users.
? Designed the Object model and UML flow diagram using Microsoft Visio.
? Implemented whole application based on Agile Methodologies.
? Used THML goodies, JAVASCRIPT for making Menu Scripts, Calendar, Table widgets, Sortable Columns,
Highlight table rows, AJAX, SCRIPT, Extjs, JQUERY, Prototype for Dynamic Client lookup and for other HTML
element like(selecting dropdown box, click on check boxes etc.).
? Used heavy external CSS files to give nice look and feel for all JSP pages.
? Developed the application using Spring Web MVC.
? Worked on Data Access Layer using JDBC Template.
? Used Abstract Excel View and Abstract PDF View for generating reports as Spread Sheet and PDF.
? Used Web 2.0 by using DWR library for implementing AJAX functionality in the application.
? Used Subversion for Version Control.
? Provided production support by interacting with the end-users and fixing bugs.
? Used JUNIT for Unit Testing.
? Used Log4j for application logging.
Environment: Java 5.0, JSP, Spring MVC Framework, Java Scripts, HTML, Unix, and UML, Oracle 10g, BEAWeblogic
10.0,PL-SQL,TOAD,DWR library, POI library, JSTL, Eclipse
Healthcare Subrogation Group Sept 2006-May 2007
Westport,CT
Project: Claim Recovery.
Role: Java Developer(Internship)
HealthCare Subrogation Group is a healthcare cost management company focused solely on subrogation claims
recovery. Subrogation is the recovery, from a third party, of medical costs that were originally paid by a benefits plan.
Responsibilities:
? Involved in design and development of Servlets and JSPs using Apache Struts framework.
? Designed and developed forms for submitting queries, form validations.
? Modified the queries for report as per requirement.
? Prepared Technical design document.
WORLD LINK COMMUNICATION May 2002- Dec 2004
Role: Java/j2ee Developer
World Link is the Internet Service Provider in Nepal. It offers various kind of data networks services including LAN, WAN,
Broadband services etc. The project involved in enabling the Internet Service Providers (ISP) to offer free Internet access
This resume submitted by Lauren Manago
949.783.3638 | Lauren.Manago@CyberCoders.com
Niren Bhattarai
to their subscribers. This application dynamically captures and updates Subscribers profile and pushes online ads to their
screen based on their profile information. The ISPs get their revenue from the advertisers. This offers the advertisers an
effective marketing tool as the ads are pushed only to a specific set of people.
Responsibilities:
? Developed the presentation and controller layers, which consists of Forms and Visual Objects using JSP.
? Used Swing, Collection, JDBC, and Applets, Threading for the entire application.
? Used JDBC, Data Sources and Connection Pooling to interact with the Oracle 7i database.
Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, Struts, Servlets, JDBC, XML, Oracle 7i, Windows XP, (UNIX).