1:Problem: 'Sentence too long' Detail: ' Length: 282, Max: 250.' ID: 1|1|29|1  S:'As people were rising from their seats, a noble looking gentleman in a white-laced ruff  collar, white stockings and the rest black velvets with gold embroidery including a wide-brimmed tall hat, curly long black hair, square black eyebrows and goatee, gentle eyes and rosy cheeks. '
2:Problem: 'Sentence too long' Detail: ' Length: 283, Max: 250.' ID: 1|2|2|10  S:'Mother was always pushing them to study and work hard in hopes they would obtain a greater position in society and life and while that intention seemed common, the intensity of her admonitions were peculiar compared to what they knew from visiting other children and their mothers.  '
3:Problem: 'Sentence too long' Detail: ' Length: 290, Max: 250.' ID: 2|2|2|1  S:'They went to the tavern next to sell the last of the animals, egg laying ducks, their sheep and goat dog, a couple egg laying chickens, and one of last year’s calves and picked up fresh spices, all kinds of powders and salts from the apothecary, new wools, new boots and flasks with cords. '
4:Problem: 'Sentence too long' Detail: ' Length: 282, Max: 250.' ID: 2|6|2|3  S:'Captain Pierce was there explaining how life would be different, how God’s infinite Wisdom had guided him on these seas many years since the Mayflower, how he felt it was a great Blessing but that he was not the best to speak on such things and so he introduced Reverend Williams.  '
5:Problem: 'Sentence too long' Detail: ' Length: 266, Max: 250.' ID: 3|2|4|5  S:'John Sr wanted someone to stake out the land he was granted along the Ipswich River at Jeffrey’s Neck so he sent John Jr. to go up there to stake out the land and guard it and build a simple home there while hunting for meat and skins in preparation for the winter. '
6:Problem: 'Sentence too long' Detail: ' Length: 307, Max: 250.' ID: 3|2|24|5  S:'Morton endeared himself with the peoples and wrote down his studies of this new land and created a new colony of free peoples for savages and men from the motherlands alike, and he revived the old faiths and held revelries around a maypole eighty feet high which he made for them and called it Merrymount.  '
7:Problem: 'Sentence too long' Detail: ' Length: 320, Max: 250.' ID: 3|3|7|1  S:'This cut their meeting short after Margaret left, but that night Mary had a talking to, "Mary, any time something marvelous happens, people will, without a second thought, attribute it to God until it disagrees with them, it is then that they immediately ascribe it to the Devil as trickery, even when it does no harm.  '
8:Problem: 'Sentence too long' Detail: ' Length: 274, Max: 250.' ID: 3|3|9|2  S:'If something evil come of it, instead blame it on your shortcomings and pridefulness and lack of diligence but do not mention God or blame it on nature and certainly never suggest witchcraft or others will follow that line of folly to a very misunderstood position and end. '
9:Problem: 'Sentence too long' Detail: ' Length: 279, Max: 250.' ID: 3|5|1|1  S:'They went home to dinner discussing everything Judith was planning for a school...a Dame School but one where they could share the arts with each other as well as study the old great works, Latin and so on so midwifery and the arts of physick would be understood for their craft.'
10:Problem: 'Sentence too long' Detail: ' Length: 341, Max: 250.' ID: 3|6|22|1  S:'"Mary, if you are caught practicing witchcraft and they think you are doing evil, if you speak anything of the devil, if they so much as dislike you and have any of the even slightest suspicion that you are using witchcraft, they will either burn you, torture you or hang you or do anything to kill you and to them, this would not be wrong. '
11:Problem: 'Sentence too long' Detail: ' Length: 305, Max: 250.' ID: 3|6|22|15  S:'The blackness of the scorched skull and remaining flesh to them was the image of the demon they wanted to destroy and so they congratulated themselves sometimes for killing a woman who gave children apples and pies but was laughed at and mocked because of how toil and kindness and age wore on her face.  '
12:Problem: 'Sentence too long' Detail: ' Length: 359, Max: 250.' ID: 3|9|1|2  S:'John Jr. outwitted them feigning his interest and asking them about the quantities they had with a slight air of greed, widening his eyes at their words and acknowledging their offers with a subtle grin which bait they took and eagerly responded to going on with even more straight faced tempting offers and expressing an air of confidence in their plotting. '
13:Problem: 'Sentence too long' Detail: ' Length: 251, Max: 250.' ID: 3|10|5|4  S:'The news soon made itself back to Boston where the whole family thanked the heavens, Father and Mother for their son's deliverance and made offerings and wrote their remembrance adding it to their Book of Memories to their ancestors in the motherland.'
14:Problem: 'Sentence too long' Detail: ' Length: 256, Max: 250.' ID: 4|4|17|1  S:'That took a little cheer out of Elizabeth’s face but she then quipped, "Perchance then we will find someone who can help us out here so we can attend to the needs of our spirits in worship and care for others." with her usual persuasively encouraging tone.'
15:Problem: 'Sentence too long' Detail: ' Length: 271, Max: 250.' ID: 4|19|15|4  S:'John Jr, Elizabeth, the Reverend and a man she had never seen before about Elizabeth’s age, came over and held him down as John Sr. came up to him quietly and then suddenly without warning as George was about to open his mouth, clubbed him in the face bloodying his nose.'
16:Problem: 'Sentence too long' Detail: ' Length: 255, Max: 250.' ID: 5|6|2|3  S:'Inside was a small earthen pot of salve made with Helichrysum and Yarrow and another styptic of goldenseal root powder, white poppy heads, ground fine with the mortar and pestle mixed with the pale, waxy bloom of some berries she had seen the sachems use.'
17:Problem: 'Sentence too long' Detail: ' Length: 319, Max: 250.' ID: 5|8|3|3  S:'The reverend quoted the verse, "And these signs will accompany those who believe: in my name they will cast out demons; they will speak in new tongues; they will pick up serpents with their hands; and if they drink any deadly poison, it will not hurt them; they will lay their hands on the sick, and they will recover."'
18:Problem: 'Sentence too long' Detail: ' Length: 317, Max: 250.' ID: 6|8|1|1  S:'One a brisk windy October morning, word came by a boy of about twelve years running to Mary Bradbury’s home saying in his breathlessness that Anne Hutchinson had requested her presence as a midwife to help in the delivery of Mary Dyer’s baby which had given them some surprise by showing signs several months early.  '
19:Problem: 'Sentence too long' Detail: ' Length: 292, Max: 250.' ID: 6|8|6|11  S:'Mary covered her nose with several handkerchiefs scented with the wildflowers and peeked out to see people’s faces buried in cloth from the stench, there was vomit on the floor, purging as people walked out of the room and children were even clutching their midsections and flailing around.  '
20:Problem: 'Sentence too long' Detail: ' Length: 2440, Max: 250.' ID: 7|1|3|2  S:'I, John Perkins the Elder of Ipswich being at this time sick and weak in body yet through the mercy and goodness of the Lord retaining my understanding and memory: do thus dispose of and bequeath my temporal estate as followeth: first I do give and bequeath unto my eldest son John Perkins (1), a foal of my young mare being new with foal; if it please the Lord she foaled it well also I give and bequeath to my son John’s two sons John and Abraham to each of them one of my yearling heifers: also I give and bequeath to my son Thomas Perkins (2) one cow and one heifer also I give and bequeath to his son John Perkins one ewe to be delivered for his use at the next shearing time; also I do give and bequeath to my daughter Elizabeth Sargeant (3) one cow and an heifer to be to her and her children after her decease as it may please ye Lord they may increase the profits or increase to be equally divided amongst the said children also I do give to my daughter Mary Bradbury (4) one cow and one heifer or a young steer to remain to her and to her children in their increase or profits as it shall please the Lord to bless them and to be equally divided to the children: also I do give and bequeath to my daughter Lydia Bennett (5) one cow and one heifer or steer to be equally divided to her children in their increase and profits after her decease: I doe also give unto my grandchild Thomas Bradbury one ewe to be set apart for his use at ye next shearing time: also I do give and bequeath unto my son Jacob Perkins (6) my dwelling house together with all the out-housing, and all my lands of one kind and other together with all improvements thereupon to be his in full possession and according to a former covenant, after the decease of my wife and not before and so to remain to him and to his heirs forever: all the rest of my estate of one kind and other I doe wholly leave to my deare wife Judith Perkins appointing and ordaining my said wife the sole executrix of this my Last Will and Testament desiring my said wife to dispose of the cattle above mentioned according to her discretion as they shall prosper: steers or heifers as also to dispose of some of the increase or some of the increase of the sheep to the children of my son Thomas and of my three daughters at the discretion of my said wife and this I do ordain as my Last Will and Testament subscribed with mine own hand this twenty-eighth day of the first month  1654:'
21:Problem: 'Sentence too long' Detail: ' Length: 280, Max: 250.' ID: 7|2|2|7  S:'Seventh was William after Thomas uncle age five, Eighth was Elizabeth age three and named for both Captain Bradbury’s mother and Mary’s sister, and then John, named for Mary’s father and brother and only five months old and seemingly quiet for Mary compared to her other children.'
22:Problem: 'Sentence too long' Detail: ' Length: 258, Max: 250.' ID: 7|11|18|9  S:'While your love is something you must keep away from the view of others, you must abide the same rules of being fair and devoted and just like others like the friend of a friend I once knew, you can keep your home matters to yourself and live your calling.  '
23:Problem: 'Sentence too long' Detail: ' Length: 346, Max: 250.' ID: 7|11|25|3  S:'People still insinuated about him and treated him less than the other men in the public sphere but in his home life, he was valued and held in high esteem for his wisdom and knowledge and miraculous ability to work any craft and especially, to make finery, costumes and threads of the finest quality, imbued with a magic only he seemed to know.  '
24:Problem: 'Sentence too long' Detail: ' Length: 251, Max: 250.' ID: 7|13|2|1  S:'As Sarah had been taught in their home many times, Wymond became fond of Sarah and while there were potential suitors, Wymond was already first in line and began to woo her as soon as it was clear she could start having gentlemen call on her to date. '
25:Problem: 'Sentence too long' Detail: ' Length: 286, Max: 250.' ID: 7|13|5|7  S:'The work progress slowly until the summer of 1655 when the bridge was nearly completed, opposition to the effort was encountered by a petition to the General Court that outlined the dangers that could result from the obstruction such a bridge would be to passing vessels on the river.  '
26:Problem: 'Sentence too long' Detail: ' Length: 292, Max: 250.' ID: 7|14|1|2  S:'However, being that this grand floating bridge became the sole source of transportation and as demand for it grew during further settlement, it soon became a very sore bottleneck and a demand George didn’t care to cater to out of his own sense of total and absolute power in this situation.  '
27:Problem: 'Sentence too long' Detail: ' Length: 316, Max: 250.' ID: 7|16|9|1  S:'"I came in obedience to the will of God the last General Court, desiring you to repeal your unrighteous laws of banishment on pain of death; and that same is my work now, and earnest request, although I told you that if you refused to repeal them, the Lord would send others of his servants to witness against them."'
28:Problem: 'Sentence too long' Detail: ' Length: 357, Max: 250.' ID: 7|17|4|1  S:'The military commander, Captain John Webb, took over reading the charges: "For the wicked crime of heresy and for the conspiracy to destroy the church from within under the foul influence of the Devil, " and so on saying how she was guilty of her own blood and not anyone else’s and how this was well deserved punishment and just how bad the Quakers were.  '
29:Problem: 'Sentence too long' Detail: ' Length: 366, Max: 250.' ID: 7|17|5|1  S:'Mary replied: "Nay, I came to keep bloodguiltiness from you, desiring you to repeal the unrighteous and unjust law of banishment upon pain of death, made against the innocent servants of the Lord, therefore my blood will be required at your hands who willfully do it; but for those that do is in the simplicity of their hearts, I do desire the Lord to forgive them. '
30:Problem: 'Sentence too long' Detail: ' Length: 273, Max: 250.' ID: 7|18|1|2  S:'The magistrate there being the dutiful tool of Boston arranged by Endicott, made a show of his authority by issuing a warrant that decreed that all  the the constables of eleven surrounding towns, including Salisbury, were to carry out public whippings of the three women. '
31:Problem: 'Sentence too long' Detail: ' Length: 255, Max: 250.' ID: 7|21|8|1  S:'"We had left for town to do our business and sell our first harvests and left our maidservant, Mehitable or Meddy Brabrook of now marrying age was taken with much smoking from her pipe and from what her mother said, ‘playing the whore’, lying and stealing'
32:Problem: 'Sentence too long' Detail: ' Length: 398, Max: 250.' ID: 7|21|10|4  S:'The only witness was a John Williston, a youth had related to me thus that as he was going to the meadows to make hay, Meddy had told him that my wife, or ‘her dame’ as she put it, was angry with her but that she would get even and so Meddy put a great toad in the milk kettle and told him about it the next morning with a countenance of wicked glee at her mischief saying "that should fix her!".  '
33:Problem: 'Sentence too long' Detail: ' Length: 277, Max: 250.' ID: 7|21|16|3  S:'As she neared the top, she used the roof thatch to steady herself but as she mounted the top with her other hand, she knocked the pipe out accidentally and she, thinking there was no fire in the pipe thought no more of it and went down to drive away the hogs out of the corn.  '
34:Problem: 'Sentence too long' Detail: ' Length: 383, Max: 250.' ID: 7|21|16|4  S:'As she went about driving the hogs out, and neared unto the rails of Abraham’s field which John Jr had granted him several years ago being newlywed, she looked back and saw the smoke rising right where she had dropped her pipe and panicked and went into Abraham Perkins, our nephew’s home and there found his wife Hannah, mentioning the kettle of clothes I had asked her help with.  '
35:Problem: 'Sentence too long' Detail: ' Length: 303, Max: 250.' ID: 7|21|16|10  S:'When she demanded her to tell her why she didn’t tell her about it immediately, Meddy said she was loath to frighten here and when asked why she did not run to put out the fire with a pail herself when it was small and she could climb to it, she said she was so panicked that she didn’t dare go to it.  '
36:Problem: 'Sentence too long' Detail: ' Length: 278, Max: 250.' ID: 8|1|1|4  S:'Since Captain Bradbury had mercifully granted him a building contract for the floating bridge so many years ago in that first court order, it only made sense to persuade him again and if it meant forming an alliance between his sons and the Captain’s daughters all the better.  '
37:Problem: 'Sentence too long' Detail: ' Length: 252, Max: 250.' ID: 8|2|10|4  S:'", she blushed seeing his jaw drop a bit, "Oh, I’m so sorry William, with my mind so distraught and encumbered with the affairs of my late’s passing, I have had much frenzy of mind in properly inviting and keeping my own dates appointed in good order."'
38:Problem: 'Sentence too long' Detail: ' Length: 270, Max: 250.' ID: 8|2|15|1  S:'"I must not stay for your sake Rebecca but also for mine since I will not stay in the company of so rude a suitor." he said to Rebecca and then turning to James, "I have seen men suit women for years with all my elder sisters and none of them have had your gall Good Sir'
39:Problem: 'Sentence too long' Detail: ' Length: 308, Max: 250.' ID: 8|14|1|4  S:'At night Mary went to her books and thumbed through the well worn book Cicero and The New Atlantis, Hamlet, The Holy Bible, Discoverie of Witchcraft, Ars Magna, De Heptarchia Mystica, and a book with alchemical symbols and Latin inscriptions and some books on science, medicine, herbs and her own writings.  '
40:Problem: 'Sentence too long' Detail: ' Length: 258, Max: 250.' ID: 8|17|2|2  S:'Mary Sibley, grey and black hair covered in bonnet and wearing her neckcloth and and a black dress went to visit Samuel Parris who lived right by her to see for herself the problem of their bewitchment and to offer assistance by means of her craft of physic.'
41:Problem: 'Sentence too long' Detail: ' Length: 332, Max: 250.' ID: 8|26|1|1  S:'Samuel Endicott sat at a desk, flipping through the book of his father’s with the usual pretentious long title doctors then liked to use, Synopsis Medicinae or a Compendium of Galenical and Chymical Physick Showing  the Art of Healing according to the Precepts of Galen & Paracelsus Fitted universally to the whole Art of Healing . '
42:Problem: 'Sentence too long' Detail: ' Length: 265, Max: 250.' ID: 8|27|5|1  S:'The constable’s stolid voice and face bespake the gravity of his message:  "By the authority of the Court of Essex for our Sovereign Lord and Lady, the King and Queen, I am ordered to take Mary Bradbury to Ipswich gaol to await further examination and questioning. '
43:Problem: 'Sentence too long' Detail: ' Length: 442, Max: 250.' ID: 8|29|5|1  S:'Beeing at Salem village w'th Constable Josp Neale the persons under written was afflicted much and Complain- ed ag'st viz Mary Walcott Ann Putnam upon Capt Bradberys wife of Salsbury & Mary Walcott Ann Putnam: mrs Marshall upon Goodwife Rice of Reding & Mary Walcott ann Puttnam Marcy Lewis upon Goodwife Read of Marblehead & Mary Walcott Marcy Lewis Ann Puttnam upon Goody Fosdick the same woemen tells them that shee afflicts mr Tufts Negro'
44:Problem: 'Sentence too long' Detail: ' Length: 765, Max: 250.' ID: 8|29|8|1  S:'Be it here known that Governor Phipps has, under the Dyvine Rights of our Lord and Lady’s Majesty, our King and Queen, henceforth from this day, the twenty-seventh of May, commissioned a Court of Oyer and Terminer in the township of Salem for the hearing and determining of Justice due these many cases here before us which do demand our diligence and Faithfulness and in so doing also hereby appoint by said commission nine Just men to sit in the court thereof as Judges to act on behalf of our Lord and Lady in all holiness and righteousness and sworn by oath over God’s sacred Words, the Holy Bible., Be they also given the rights to swear jurors for the invest of these cases as come before the court to diligently inquire after all cases of treason, felony ...'
45:Problem: 'Sentence too long' Detail: ' Length: 460, Max: 250.' ID: 9|1|2|1  S:'Tom entered the dim candlelit courtroom to see, on the right side of the court, the accusers: Thomas Putnam Jr, his wife Anne Carr Putnam, their daughter Ann Jr., a young puffy-faced teen whose eyes were already red with crying and some of the other townsfolk of Salem with their daughters, among them Mary Walcott, an older teen, along with her father John Walcott, a widower of several years, her maternal uncle Samuel Sibley and his wife, Aunt Mary Sibley. '
46:Problem: 'Sentence too long' Detail: ' Length: 278, Max: 250.' ID: 9|3|5|1  S:'Concerning Mrs Bradbury’s life and conversation, we the subscribers do testify that it was such as became the gospel she was a lover of the ministry in all appearance and a diligent attender upon God’s holy ordinances, being of a courteous and peaceable disposition and caring. '
47:Problem: 'Sentence too long' Detail: ' Length: 308, Max: 250.' ID: 9|3|5|2  S:'Neither did any of us (some of whom have lived in the town with her above fifty years) ever hear or know that she ever had any difference or falling out with any of her neighbors; man, woman, or child; but was always ready and willing to do for them what lay in her power night and day, though with hazard of'
48:Problem: 'Sentence too long' Detail: ' Length: 1044, Max: 250.' ID: 9|4|2|1  S:'"The jurors for our Sovereign Lord and Lady, the King and Queen do present that Mary Bradbury, Wife of Captain Thomas bradbury of Salisbury, in the County of Essex entered upon the Twenty-Sixth day of July in the year aforesaid and divers other days and times as well before as after certain detestable arts called witchcraft and sorceries wickedly, maliciously and feloniously hath used, practiced and exercised at and in the township of Andover in the County of Essex aforesaid in upon and against one Timothy Swann of Andover in the county aforesaid husbandman, by which said wicked acts the said Timothy Swann upon the 26th day of July aforesaid and divers other days and times both before and after was and is tortured, afflicted, consumed, pined, wasted and tormented and also for sundry other acts of witchcraft by the said Mary Bradbury committed and done before and since that time against the peace of our Sovereign Lord and Lady the King and Queen, their crown and dignity and the form of the statute in that case made and provided,"'
49:Problem: 'Sentence too long' Detail: ' Length: 757, Max: 250.' ID: 9|4|7|3  S:'I am the servant of Jesus Christ and have given myself up to him as my only Lord and Savior and to the diligent attendance upon him in all his holy ordinances, in utter contempt and defiance of the devil, and all his works as horrid and detestable and accordingly have endeavored to frame my life and conversation according to the rules of his holy word, and in that faith and practice resolve by the help and assistance of God to continue to my life’s end: for the truth of what I say as to matter of practice I humbly refer myself to my brethren and neighbors that know me and unto the searcher of all hearts for the truth and uprightness of my heart therein: (human frailties and unavoidable infirmities excepted) of which I bitterly complain every day."'
50:Problem: 'Sentence too long' Detail: ' Length: 404, Max: 250.' ID: 9|4|12|1  S:'Concerning my beloved wife Mary Bradbury this is that I have to say: we have been married fifty five years: and she hath been a loving and faithful wife to me, unto this day she hath been wonderful  laborious diligent and industrious in her place and employment, about the bringing up of our family (which have been eleven children of our own and four grandchildren: She was both prudent and provident.  '
51:Problem: 'Sentence too long' Detail: ' Length: 368, Max: 250.' ID: 9|4|12|2  S:'Of a cheerful spirit liberally charitable: she being now very aged and weak, and grieved under her affliction may not be able to speak much for herself, not being so free of speech as some others may be: I hope her life and conversation hath been such amongst her neighbours as gives a better and more real testimony of her, than can be expressed by words owned by me.'
52:Problem: 'Sentence too long' Detail: ' Length: 259, Max: 250.' ID: 9|4|27|1  S:'On Tuesday Next at Twelve of the Clock or as soon after as possible there to testify the truth on Several Indictments to be Exhibited against Mrs Mary Bradbury and  other prisoners to be tried for the horrible Crime of Witchcraft, hereof make return fail not.'
53:Problem: 'Sentence too long' Detail: ' Length: 308, Max: 250.' ID: 9|9|8|2  S:'Bradbury, she hath lived according to the rules of the Gospel amongst us; was a constant attender upon the ministry of the word, and all the ordinances of the gospel full of works of charity and mercy to the sick and poor; neither have I seen or heard anything of her unbecoming the profession of the gospel.'
54:Problem: 'Sentence too long' Detail: ' Length: 279, Max: 250.' ID: 9|9|22|3  S:'Bradbury is a most dreadful witch for since she has been in prison she or her Appearance has come to me and most grievously afflicted me, Ann Putnam owned before the grand inquest - this here evidence to be the true one the oath that she hath taken: this: 8 day of September 1692'
55:Problem: 'Sentence too long' Detail: ' Length: 538, Max: 250.' ID: 9|9|34|1  S:'"After we arrived in Barbados we went to Saltitudos and had laden our vessel the next morning, she sprang a leak in the hold which wasted several tons of salt insomuch that we were forced to unladen our vessel again wholly to stop our leak and there was then four feet of water in the hold after had taken in our lading again, we had a good passage home but when we came near the land the Captain sent me forward to look out for land in a bright moon shining night and as I was sitting on the windlass, I heard a rumbling noise under me. '
56:Problem: 'Sentence too long' Detail: ' Length: 300, Max: 250.' ID: 9|9|66|1  S:'Tom played off the whole thing as preposterous but that wild hogs are a frequent occurrence on their farms and that a hot day could cause anyone to see a hog or a boar more fantastic than it really was and that boars are naturally known to charge and eat out of the waste piles left out for the hogs.'
57:Problem: 'Sentence too long' Detail: ' Length: 309, Max: 250.' ID: 9|9|82|5  S:'My father, being persuaded by some of the family, which I shall not name, not to let him marry so young, would not give him a portion whereupon the match broke of which my brother laid so much to heart that he grew melancholy and by degrees, much crazed not being the man that he was before to his dying day."'
58:Problem: 'Sentence too long' Detail: ' Length: 286, Max: 250.' ID: 9|9|85|4  S:'I was present with him when he died and do affirm that he died peaceably and quietly never manifesting the least trouble in the world about anybody nor did not say anything Mrs Bradbury nor anybody else doing him hurt and yet I was with him till the breath of life was out of his body."'
59:Problem: 'Sentence too long' Detail: ' Length: 308, Max: 250.' ID: 9|9|91|2  S:'Ann followed suit with the account of Mary’s examination day and how the accused Mary had struck all her friends "by her acts of witchcraft" but then added in refutation of William Carr’s testimony by saying, "Also, my uncle John Carr appeared to me in a winding sheet whom I very well knew in his lifetime."'
60:Problem: 'Sentence too long' Detail: ' Length: 651, Max: 250.' ID: 9|10|1|2  S:'He read it aloud: "Mary Bradbury, wife of Captain Thomas Bradbury, having heard the testimonies presented both for and against you, and after a due consideration of evidence, this court has determined the verdict on the accusations made against you, in that Mary Bradbury is … ", he paused uncomfortably but raised his eyes up for a moment staring across the heads of the court with his expressionless face and voice, "guilty of all the accusations made in that she was found to be committing ….Sundry Acts of Witchcraft and Sorceries as forbidden by law and therefore subject to any penalties prescribed and justly passed in sentence for your crime."'
61:Problem: 'Sentence too long' Detail: ' Length: 524, Max: 250.' ID: 9|10|3|3  S:'He turned a page leaf and scanned the paper a moment before reading again, "On this day, the 9th of September, 1692, Having heard many witnesses and found the defendant guilty and convicted of Sundry Acts of Witchcraft and Sorceries, maliciously and feloniously used against the plaintiffs aforesaid and in defiance of the Crown, it is the Judgement of this court that Mary Bradbury is hereby sentenced to die by hanging at the gallows which is to be carried out on the 22nd day of September of this year, 1692 of our Lord."'
62:Problem: 'Sentence too long' Detail: ' Length: 275, Max: 250.' ID: 10|1|15|1  S:'Thomas caught off guard gave a hearty chuckle but continued  "It may very well be so but he has always looked up to you and can’t bear the thought of you here and he’s been around the courts long enough to know that a little favor in the right hands can bring down any wall."'
63:Problem: 'Sentence too long' Detail: ' Length: 346, Max: 250.' ID: 10|7|2|1  S:'Mary writes a couple of stories that she reads to her children, hoping they’ll always do good and if they ever obtain skill or greatness, to always remain modest and deferent to avoid the traps of fame, warning them if they become too prideful, they will cease to have power and tumble like an old tower that few suspect has aged quite so much.  '

