A red velvet curtain parted and a billowing of white smoke poured onto the stage. 
Several of the audience members in the front gasped, scattered coughs were heard.  At least two hundred audience members, their hats and bonnets shading them from sun and rain, sat before an open air theatre in the little town of Hilmorton to watch the latest masqued play. As the smoke continued to pour, the sky had also seemed to dim accordingly. Seven motionless faces peeked out of the fog which now filled the air in a thin haze where the curtains were. Tall figures in black shrowdes strode out in a dance to a slow and somber tune played by a small band of four players with cellos and bass violins. The figures were each fitted with masques that bespoke of old hags. Noses and chins protruded thence whimsically painted with carmine lippy and rouge like the court mistresses and whores. 
“Judith, mine ears hast been heavy with rumours that a witch has stolen the children and eaten them.”, spoke a raspy and masque muffled voice.
“Rubbish! Tis the old troll down the road who hath done this. The town folk dare not meet this fellow because he is wild and might slay them on sight though he takes much pain to eat for show and eats them in playne sight and otherwise lays about in idleness. They look to us because we too play fools with life and death. An we play the saviors this time, they will accuse us as before. In due time I will make a pie of pork and hemlock to give him slumber and there we must all take him to the sea and cast him there. Send forth for my familiar for he doth not answer my call this time.”
A stuffed fur shaped into a cat and mounted on wheels made its way onto the stage seemingly by itself and fell over. 
“Mine familiar, Asmodeus! Quicken thyself! ” said Judith the head witch in a raspy falsetto, “Why dost thou not stir!?  O woes and pains hath befallen me here. As out of Magdalene went seven demons. Wherefore one not tarry here?  Nine years hast thou been suckled. Wherewith didst thou portend to me this fate?  And leaveth me with these dowdies?  Bridget, Hepsibah, Constance, Abigail, Mary, Anne, I give you license to depart.”
One of the dark cloaks stepped out to speak, “Judith, mother of crones, what desirest thou of thine daughters that we may not so soon hie off? Shall we feareth to abide with thee?”
“His soul hath swithly gone and thou needest our succor,” came another voice amongst the cloaks.
“Hepsibah, sister, his soul sleepeth before the fire,” croaked a rotund matron as she stepped forward. “Wail not and fetch me a cistern and flint!  Whereby we may take him unawares. Taketh thou dried moss of a moor, five old skins of a snake, a dram of moth-wing dust and three grains of a gnat’s liver,” she said pointing around. “And bind these to a spell for him!”
One of the masqued robes brought out a cistern and vessels and handed it to another. She stared wide creeping and stalking up on a point not seen and then she abruptly swung the open cistern as if it were made of paper in a wide arc over the imaginary point and lidded it shut. She leapt and twirled with delight. A loud “Meow” came from backstage as the crowd cheered. They danced around the cistern and leapt over it in turn. As the band winded down, she handed it to mother Judith uttering loudly for all to hear, “Mine familiar, tarry but a little longer with me!”   
A deep meow, almost a yowl came from the stage as if from a phantom there.
She grabbed the vessel and took off the lid.  Inside the vessel was a white powder. She lit a small fire in the censer and placed the cistern on it into which she then placed the cat effigy. The fire exploded in a burst of sparks causing shrieks and awes and the actors themselves were startled.  One fell over while others looked around at each other. Laughter filled the air as the one who fell struggled in his skirts to climb to his feet. The burning powder filled the air and fog rolled out again onto the stage. They danced round about the fire laughing and cackling gleefully. As the cat was now obscured, young stage hands reached into the cistern and took out the effigy and replaced it with a live cat. The tallest hag picked up the cat before it could get away and pet it assuringly before proclaiming:
“Asmodeus! Thou Fool! From whence didst thou fall that thou wouldst force my hand to return thy soul?” said Judith, mother of crones.
The cat meowed loudly as if in response and she jolted upward feigning being startled and in awe. The witches danced around again, tossing powder into the fire bringing flames that licked ever higher towards the leaves. Their vizards came off out of view as they continued to dance around the fire, their faces younger and visibly male and gaunt but with girlish carmine stains remaining on their lips. The music picked up and the crowd applauded the end of the scene and act. 
Nauseating scents of stinging stage smoke, mildewed cobblestones, wet tobacco and rotting meat thickened the air around the audience seats. Further down, the streets were lined with vendors. The array of rolling carts with their wares hanging with sausage links, smoke-cured meats and packing their carts. Bells and voices babbled through mists seeping from the wet streets that were recently dampened with spring rains. The sky was overcast and slowly dimming to a hiding sun. The air was cool and still.
In the back of the theatre’s seating, one of the sergeants was there tripling his duties as father, theatre patron and keeper of the peace. His entourage was last to leave the stands. John Perkins Sr. finally stood up unfurling a black wooly sergeant's cape and sword tucked into a brown hard leather scabbard, strapped about his waist. His cheeks were dimpled as well as his chin. His dark curly hair and bright blue eyes meet his wife Judith’s dusty green eyes piercing his back with an air of dread. John Sr. looked around to count the heads of his children. He looked back at his darling of a wife, her hair in sandy ringlets and tied up under a sun hat with a ribbon tying it down and resting under her chin.  She took the cue to double check the count with him. After they both peered out over the crowds, their eyes met again at the same time with John Sr. finally asking, “Where is that boy?”
Judith’s brow furrowed and squinted as she held a hand up over her eyes. She had four children with her earlier but now three. There were two more at home with a governess. Judith wore a lot of face powder and color compared to most.  She was fond of her earrings and necklaces despite the fact she was considered by most such a God fearing woman “once you got to be familiar with her.”  However, there were a few who considered her a strange and miraculous woman “once you start to do business with her.”
“Mother, I think he’s back there somewhere,” pointed out Elizabeth or Lizzie, the oldest girl, almost towheaded with grey eyes and fourteen years old. Lizzie and Henry were twins and while both of them thought Judith was overprotective, Lizzie would get annoyed when Henry went missing. Even so, she had a knack of knowing where he was.
John Jr, or Johnny was the oldest son. At sixteen, he was now as tall as his father, and with his face a younger version of father’s as well, people started to confuse the two when John Sr. was not in uniform or when they both wore hats.  Johnny’s hair was longer and sun-bleached into light brown locks just lighter than his mother’s and just barely curled at his shoulders.  He asked an older boy sitting next to him who he knew from school, “Willy, have you seen my brother Henry?” to which the pallid and long-faced boy shook his head.  He walked out onto the grass and weaved through the crowds.
Mary, the youngest of their four children was ten years old and had long dark walnut-brown hair and deep green eyes like her mother’s.  She saw Elizabeth, or “Lizzie” for short turn around and walk straight back to the rear of the audience section and disappear. Judith looked down at Mary who was now already starting to follow Lizzie’s trail to the rear section.  As Mary weaved around the crowds, she pushed aside several large fluffy dresses carefully looking for the familiar blue skirt that Lizzie wore.  Finally reaching the back, she saw Henry dancing at a clearing.  He looked unusually like his sister but with much shorter blonde hair.  They both had those cherub like cheeks to match their often frowned upon, and hence secretive, joviality.  Lizzie was watching him giggling.  His dance parody was an outlandish version of the dances they just saw on stage. He hopped on one foot and onto the other with a big sweeping step and made a creaky voice of an elderly woman to which people burst into uproar. The crowds cleared further away from him forming a circle around him, now including Lizzie who she soon spotted to her right seeing her by her light hair but otherwise concealed amongst the mass of skirts.  Lizzie spotted Mary back quickly and changed her demeanor from one of mirth to a serious, miniature mommy one.  Lizzie walked past Henry and snagged his collar turning him about to where Mary was.  
“You mustn’t follow me out here!  What if you got lost?”
“I thought we were looking for him.”
“Yes, and I was just about to bring him back!”
Lizzie knew that Mary would say just enough to not let her get away with just standing there watching so the three of them marched back through the ruffles and tailcoats to where they could see mother, father and Johnny.  
Mary was worried that Henry might offend one of the dancers if they accidentally spied him out.  She gulped down the impending feeling of trouble brewing that Henry seemed to cause regularly.  Mary stomped angrily at how she saw Lizzie there.  Mary was sensitive to Lizzie’s double standards and a bit unaware as to how prevalent double standards were.  Mary could never bring herself to do that.  Her conscience would bite her too hard. She sighed to herself feeling completely alone in having such a strict guide stuck in her head.  Part of her secretly wished she could be more like Lizzie.
“Henry, what did I tell you before we got here?” piped his angry father.  John Sr. brought his hand around to Henry’s backside to give it a firm whack.  Henry winced mid-smile.  
Henry enjoyed the attention better than his brother Johnny did but knew not to press his luck with father so he gave a sincere sounding “Oww!” with just enough protest to convince that he got the message.  
“Johnny, we found Henry!” shouted John Sr. 
Judith looked back at the stage deep in thought. She played the sound of her name being repeated in her head. Judith, mine ears… Judith, mother of crones. These words sounded as if to implicate her as a worker of the forbidden arts.  These were local actors and they borrowed from the names that were whispered around the small urban center of Hilmorton. Has Judith made a pact with the Devil? She could hear it now. Was it merely a coincidence for them to use her name in this small town?  She was the most widely known Judith in this town who could work the “olde remedys”. She knew she had fair motives in her workings and that it was nearly always efficacious so that most people gave her heartfelt gratitude for her healing. Were the people starting to look for the scapegoats again? She shuddered at the thought and memories of women whose works were exaggerated from similar practices of physick and later tried and executed. I should not be so eager for such vanities as fame. 
As people were rising from their seats, a noble looking gentleman in a white-laced ruff  collar, white stockings and the rest black velvets with gold embroidery including a wide-brimmed tall hat, curly long black hair, square black eyebrows and goatee, gentle eyes and rosy cheeks. His finger shh’d his lips as he passed a slip of paper to Judith and smiled at her husband then continued walking past with a retinue of two guards, three young ladies and a man dressed as a coach driver with a long feather in his hat. She opened the slip, her husband peering over her shoulder. It read:
It’s Mary. Mind her carefully! F.B.
As they stood re-reading the message in the coming darkness of twilight, the guide who would take the audience to their various homes came by with his torch, pulling people along behind him.  The joined their children’s hands, Judith took her husband’s as John followed the torchbearer in the night with various gentry all around him. While Judith’s feet were not as dainty as they once were, she could at least be spared the sprained ankles on the tiny feet of the town’s spritely, young maidens. Those feet she could hear clacking over the stony walk most of the walk home. Some of these maidens had come out to theatre for their very first time and so she next wondered how many would be calling on her for a boneset plaster the next morning.  Judith would glance back at Mary every so often wondering what it was Mary might have done to have gained the notice of the noble gentleman.  
***
The Perkins home was one of several nestled in along Clifton Road. It stood out as a light colored brick and wood unit with two gables with smaller guest homes on either side surrounded by a well-battered-up and splintery picket fence patched by the wild brush and willows that found their way there.  The bedrooms upstairs were warmed by the hearth and chimney. Mary’s black walnut hair framed blush cheeks and pale skin shivering over her small frame as she woke up.  A thick quilt half covered her exposed arm out of her smock. She stretched her cold arms, shivered and snuck back into bed pulling the ragged covers, tattered into strips here and there taught over her head disappearing from view.   
Everyone was out of bed except Mary and her two baby brothers lying in the spot between where mother and father slept on her right with Lizzie, Henry and Johnny’s spot on the left. Thomas, the older baby, was actually more of a toddler at three years of age and had shocks of curly hair that had started to lengthen and darken.  Jacob, swaddled next to him was just a year old and had light shorter hair.  He sucked his thumb off and on as his eyes fluttered through his dreams. Did they let her sleep in today? Mary looked at the empty books that lay on the table. One of them had her name on it. I will write a page every day. She could hear mother’s voice in her head reminding her to keep up with her school work. Mother was always pushing them to study and work hard in hopes they would obtain a greater position in society and life and while that intention seemed common, the intensity of her admonitions were peculiar compared to what they knew from visiting other children and their mothers.  This giant bed’s stuffing was tied down with tautline hitches and batted up and repaired often.  Small tables of odd sizes lined a wall.  Some had books under them and everyone had a spot or a box of their own under them.  Dried flowers and herbs hung from a hemp line tied between two posts for both protection and cooking.  The casement open air windows were shuttered open allowing a gentle breeze through layers of drapes.  Seats lined the windows for cooling off in the breeze and watching out over the yard for the possible visitor in the summer.
She reached down to grab her overclothes and took up the milk pail to get outside and milk the family’s cow so she could get Jacob his breakfast before mother would remind her. On her way out, she grabbed some bread, dabbed it in some honey and butter and took the rest with her on the way. Lizzie was sitting in the shade of the home on a bench, washing and teasing wool to be spun later. How does she work so hard? She had already so diligently finished scrubbing the clothes on the washboard and her hands were still fit carding wool from the ewes which were were lambing this past spring.  She then overheard Henry pleading with John, “Please take me duck hunting!”
“Sorry Henry, you scared them all last time, I can’t take you if you want to eat game tonight.”
“I promise I won’t spook them. Please?” 
Mother was tending the garden and father was overseeing the farm hands. 
As Mary started to milk the cows she started to become entranced by the rhythm the milk made against the side of the pail. She felt a little pricking on her neck like a fly. She then felt a squirt to the face as Henry grabbed a nipple and squirted her down, the cow also taking alarm to the point Mary was afraid it might take it out on Henry but it didn’t. She squirted him back, he opened his mouth to catch it and laughed. 
“Do that and ye won’t fill your pail!”
Mary was quiet this time, trying to focus through getting her milking chores done. She felt tired even though she was rested. She pulled a foxtail out of the neck of her smock realizing the pricking on her neck felt earlier was no fly. Henry apparently was bored not being able to go hunting but it was only a matter of time before he would be made to clean stables. Henry seemed to get away with it having Lizzie on his side. The fields were full of cowslips, orchids, poppies and cornflowers. The cow’s heavy grazing made the milk pails extra heavy as a result.
There was now plenty of butter to make. Mother was in the shade of the house by the hearthstone, working the dasher in the churn. 
Mary could hear her mother’s soft chant, “Come butter come, come butter come, Peter stands at the gate, waiting for his buttered cake” 
Mary was entranced further by the hand dropping the dasher with a twist making a steady rhythm to the kathunk-a-thunk-a-thunk of the churn. It was a comforting sound she had heard for as long as she could remember. Mary cradled the one-year old Jacob over her lap and steadily poured milk out of the cup for him. He’d swallow the milk to the same rhythm. She had become adept at this since Thomas was that age.  She could now steady the cup while watching mother make butter out of the corner of her eye. Soon there would be sweet butter and buttermilk which would go into the cakes by evening. Henry soon burst in with some wildflowers he picked on his way back from the stable. 
“These will be a fine batch Henry! I will have to save the marigolds and violets for my next batch of salve,” Judith exclaimed, her eyes brightening at the floral array. 
Mary felt a scowl coming on at Henry’s interruption but before it could come out, Judith turned to Mary with “So would you like to go visit grandpa?” Mary’s heart leaped in delight. She would give anything to take a break from the hot afternoon with the cows again. 
“Oh we must go!”   
“Then let’s get out of these work rags and into our finery...but not until you help me finish the butter! Henry, go fetch me a firkin!”
Within a few minutes, Henry brought in a smaller dark peat colored firkin that looked like it had many fillings of butter. He gripped its lid attempting to free it from its vessel, but after a few puzzled looks, heaves and face-reddening tries, he let out a long sigh, He set it down on the table.“This is impossible! It’s sealed too tight!” 
Judith broke mid-churn to find a needle tipped wand from the table. Being a cunning woman in Hilmorton and more well known than even she knew, she often had curious and never-seen-before solutions to these odd little problems. She ordered Henry again, “Put it down in the center and come over here!”  Henry did so as Judith held out her stick, just barely touching the firkin. She uttered some words under her breath. Names most likely.  One of them sounded like Albertus. After a while she stopped muttering and everyone watched the firkin intently. Nothing. 
A few seconds later, Mary let out a huge yawn from behind Judith’s arm and right into the base end of the wand she held.  The sound of her ears popping resulted in an even greater pop coming right from the firkin and the lid hopped to the sound of its own accord. It appeared now to be loose. Henry grasped the lid, still staring in disbelief.  He easily picked the lid right off. Judith smiled at Mary and Henry, who while still awestruck, went to hand the firkin to mother.  She pulled them into hug and uttered a “Oh bless you Mary!” at her. Mary smiled to herself sheepishly feeling more important than she was used to and also remembering just how unique and unusual her mother was compared to most.  
After the butter making business was all put away, Judith called everyone in the main parlour to wash and don their finest for grandpa.  Michael Gater was a lonely and recent widower who had long been without children in his home. His daughter Judith and her family were among the few to ever visit him in his old age. 
***
Their family strolled by foot during the day towards grandpa Gater’s house about a mile and a half away. Judith was carrying Jacob in her arms.  As they neared his home, they stepped through the gate and into a wildflower spritzed greenery which was thick with fluff, bees and butterflies. A maypole towered off to the side, bedecked with bouquets of flowers and ribbons and spare cloth.  
“Father! Grandpa!” they shouted together seeing an older man in clean black leather boots, grey stockings, dusty and billowing britches, a long white tunic showing through a waistcoat frayed at the shoulders. He had a somber face and flat jaw likely due to missing teeth and shocks of grey hair combed back haphazardly. He had walked out of the front door before they could even approach to knock.
“Judith, it’s been too long, your children are half grown!”
“Oh father, I was just here last week bringing you bread and butter.”
“And my good boy John, come in and pray tell me what you’ve grown this year,” he said to John Sr who still couldn’t get over how warm and fatherly he was to him.  
“Just the ryegrass and barley this year.  The wheat crop went too fast.”
As they all went inside, Judith set down the bread and butter Lizzie carried along the way and had just handed to her.  John Sr. pulled all the chairs out of the corner and slid them across the floor noisily handing them to his children.  Michael kept his rocking chair at the table. 
“I brought you some sweet butter lacking the salt, just the way you like it Father.”
Michael lifted the warm bread out of the basket and cut off several slices for them. He liked to butter his bread and then turn it upside-down. John Sr. found this a little odd and it was a small joke he shared with the other sergeants in the past. Judith never found it quite as funny. Grandpa’s taste was fading and he found delight in savoring the butter directly on his tongue as he ate his bread. 
After tea, he took them all out back to see his yard. Mary’s eyes beamed as if she saw a little wonderland back there.  His home was well established and one time not so overgrown. 
“You can go out and play but don’t wander off too far!”
John took Henry out to the woods chatting about their hunting plans. Judith took Thomas around by a finger trailing behind Mary and Lizzie who followed Michael around the garden.  John Sr took over holding Jacob for a while.  John Sr. had no qualms taking Jacob in his arms and resting in a chair outside as his wife and kids went out for the latest tour of the garden. Michael’s home was bigger than his and full of old furnishings, silver and copper bowls, plates, earthwares and contraptions he had made.  If he weren’t so proud, he might have preferred to raise his children there.  
Mary gasped looking around Michael’s herbs and flower garden.  There were lilac bushes, galbanum, brown-eyed susans, zinnias, foxgloves, bluebells, bachelor’s buttons, columbines and honeysuckles among many other varieties.  Some nightshade vines crawled around the corners with some morning glories. 
Judith caught up with her youngest daughter, “Mary, wait up for mother.”
“Yes mother?”
“Would you like to stay here and help grandpa?”
“I would most enjoy it mother. Thank you.”
Michael broke in, his poor hearing making for interruption, “Mary, you’ve grown into such a fine young lady.  Would you help me pick some of the flower tops on those over there?”
Mary went for the foxgloves, some wolfsbane, comfrey and lavender flowers in their myriad purple blossoms.
“That lavender I can use for a salve that can heal scrapes,” said Michael, starting to play the instructor as Judith watched smiling.
Judith called after John and Henry and took Jacob back from her husband and giving Thomas back to him to handhold.  Elizabeth followed behind her. As they were gathering and picking up coats, baskets and bags, Judith called to Michael and Mary, “We shall be back again in a few mornings.”
Michael took Mary’s bushels of flowers and set them out on a big cluttered table full of picks, brushes, bars, and tools she had never seen before.  
“I think it’s about time I show you how to make the salve with something we call enfleurage.  First you must flatten the butter and I like to melt it in the sun and then take it into the cool room.  While it’s still melted, put all the flower petals in the butter.” Michael poured it over a board.  “Now we’ll roll it around into a ball and knead it,” he said as he dipped his hands into the greasy puddle. 
“Won’t I get the flowers greasy?” asked Mary, shrinking away from the mess on the table. 
“Wet your hands in the water first and it won’t be so bad. That’s the way. Now let’s melt it again in the sun and drain it through the cloth and into the second dish. Pick some more flowers for me will you?”
“Yes Grandfather.”
“Now we need to do this again a few times and we’ll soon have a wonderful and fragrant salve.”
Over the course of the rest of the day and the next, Michael showed her how to make a violet flavored honey for coughs, a yarrow and mugwort tincture for toothaches, and fits and a comfrey and mint tea for broken bones. He smiled brightly. For a moment his face seemed about as young as her older brother, Henry’s face, despite being sixty years in age. He must have used a lot of the salve to keep his youthful appearance she surmised. Grandpa had a tall soft bed in a loft for Mary to sleep in.  It was a dark scratched and stained wooden bed frame showing age which must have cost a fortune once upon a time.  The whitewashed plaster on the wall had uneven textures and was cracking away.  The bed had ropes which were tightened to hold up mattresses which she guess were filled with herbs like hops, mums, daisies and lilacs amongst the discarded grain grasses. In a corner was an uneven wooden dresser with a chipped water basin on top with a mismatched pitcher. 
On the third day, Mary wondered when she’d see mother and father again.  She woke up to help grandpa with breakfast and gather eggs.  After that, they went out together to a plot of  tomatoes.  Mary had never seen them on any of the other farms she had been to.  
“Most folks think these fruits are poisonous, but I have eaten them every summer.  They flower like a nightshade but have a yellow blossom and they taste nothing like it.  The places I’ve travelled to, I got some seeds from and these kind are not poison and I do believe they are good for the belly and the heart.”  He sliced one in half and showed it to her. “See?  It looks like the heart and if your heart beats too fast and too weak, then a tomato will fix it right.” With that he pulled out a small brush.  Mary liked to just listen to him speak and would be simple in her reply to him.  He brushed the yellow tomato blossoms pushing their pollen around in strokes gently around the flower. “There, now you try it.”
Mary took the brush and did as he did.  He had her hand pollinate to get more fruit from the tomatoes.  He said something about the bees being few this year.  After this, he went to show her a big barrel and when he took the lid off, there was a mild stench.  “This is a water to make plants grow,  I just toss all my scraps into this.”  Mary noticed maggots swimming and flies congregating around it.  “They’re pesky but they only add to the mix.” He took a pot with a handle into the barrel and walked it out to the tomatoes and poured it over the main stems to water the roots below.  
Next, he took her to a beehive and had her stand back as he draped himself and made a smoker out of an old kettle. He showed her the combs of honey and sliced off a plate of it which they shared inside. “When I can’t eat all the honey, I put some of it in my still here.” He lifted the top off a seal and out came a yeasty sweet gas.  He poured some out and resealed it again. “I can show you how to make this into a tincture medicine for aches and pains. 
Mary wondered at how easy an existence Michael seemed to have.  He was old but had almost everything he needed out of his garden.  She knew he would sometimes go to the markets with them but he had gone out less and less over the years and they went to him more and more.  As they were walking out to the garden again, Mary stopped him at the strawberry patch where last year Mary had transplanted strawberry vines. The strawberries were looking weak and blackened in the leaves.
“Why aren’t my strawberries growing?” she inquired.
“Strawberries like well-drained soil.  The water has to drain from them or else they bog.”
“What’s bog?”
“Oh, that’s where the stems can’t breathe and rot grows on them and they get slimes like a pond.”
“Ohh, ok.”
“I’ll get some sand. This soil would be better for watercress and nasturtiums.”  
Michael got some sand he had bagged up.  It was too heavy for him so she found a small cart and wheeled it for him.  “My you are helpful.”  This made Mary smile happily that she was being as helpful as she hoped she would be.  Right as Mary was adding sand to a dry spot in the soil, she saw her mother walking up the road.  Judith was pleased with Mary’s work and Michael gave her a good report. Michael sent her home with some of her creations they made together in little pots. As she left he shouted to her, “Come back soon, I have some old receipts that works really good for the colic in babes and a mead I think you’d really like.” He shouted so hard he erupted into a stream of non-stop coughing fits.  Judith noticed how he was always bundling up and complaining of stiffness and cold.
***
As Judith and Mary entered their kitchen back home, Mary could see Lizzie was busy washing pots.  Mary excitedly rushed out words just barely comprehensible, “Lizzie, I had such a wonderful time, I learned so much, I have to tell you about the flower butter I made!”
Lizzie gave her a stern look and threw a rag at her. “Want to know what I did all week?” she said pointing to a pile of pots.
Mary stared at the pot that Lizzie pointed at and one fells down and broke into pieces. Henry came in looking a little shocked but also like it wasn’t too surprising. Lizzie ignored it as if to assume Mary might have brushed it and knocked it over, already somewhat blinded by her anger. Lizzie stomped her feet. “Ooooh! You clumsy fool!” and with that she threw down a broom and stomped off. Mary began to sob and walked slowly to the broom and started to sweep. Henry approached Mary and put his arm around her. 
“It’s not your fault, she’s been like this all week.” 
Mary stopped sobbing but was still flushed in the face and was aching in the pit of her stomach. As she looked up at Henry, she looked about ready to break into sobs again. 
“Please don’t Mary… Lizzie drops things herself sometimes. Little accidents make life interesting. Who knows, maybe it is our Lord’s greater purpose to keep us well by not having us eat from old dishes...maybe. Or maybe it would have later fell on my toe!  So thank you Mary, thank you for saving my big toe!”  Mary continued to sob but Henry continued, “Mary, I got to go to grandpa’s last year too. Did he show you how to make the anise and mint liqueur or the dandelion wine?”
“Not yet”
“What did he teach you?”
Mary took a few moments to compose  herself and sniffled a few times before she got the words out. “We didn’t work that much.”
“Come on Mary, please tell me.”
“Ok, well…”
“Well?”
“Well, we made a violet flavored cough honey. It’s sweet, like a candy. I sneaked a little taste and it was the sweetest thing I have ever tasted. It tasted like flower nectar.”  
“Oh, now he didn’t show me that. He didn’t let me drink any of it the stuff we made...said it had to be for pains and ailments or for when I got older and wanted a good tonic.”
For a moment, Mary was still looking down.  Henry put his arm around her consoling her. Mary felt touched and turned to him, and embraced him, taking him by surprise, “Thank you Henry.”
Henry looked confused but then put his hand on her shoulder to gently break her embrace and told her, “Any time you want someone to talk to, I’m here for you. You mustn’t forget it!”
Mary thought a little better of Henry from that time forward. Usually it would have been Lizzie who would do this for Mary whenever Henry teased her.  Lizzie ignored her and refused to talk to her for an entire week and instead produced a fair amount of wool which she then took to the tuckers every week. She was soon bringing home felts and some extra coins which pleased Judith but not entirely.
“Lizzie, you need to talk to your sister.  She will become forever melancholy unless you make amends with her.  Remember that the Good Lord says to forgive.”
“I don’t remember the last time I got to stay with Grandpa and I don’t remember it being so long.  Why does Mary get to go there?”
“Don’t be jealous, Mary’s craft is a different one than yours.  You are making good money from yours already.  Mary needs to learn something…” Judith almost said “in case either one of you doesn’t marry” but thought the better not to.  This was a fear all too real as she had seen so many of her spinster neighbors end up in the poorhouse. “Grandpa’s cough has me worried. It goes on and on like he might not clear it up. I want you to make him a warm coat.”  
“Yes mother.”, she replied with raised brow. Lizzie was ecstatic with the idea of making a piece of clothing again. It was a job that mother usually got to do.  
Judith watched Lizzie spinning the yarn, “Why don’t you sing a good little psalm to enchant the thread as I instructed you?”
Lizzie grumbled at the request. She thumbed through the dusty copy of the Great Bible randomly and found Psalm 88. Her voice see-sawed through the words in cadences, just passable enough to be counted song.
When she finished, Judith took the coat and folded it into a sack to surprise him with.  She walked to Grandpa’s home with Lizzie in tow.  She knocked on the door but there was no answer.  After a patient wait and a looking at the birds in the sky, Judith grew worried and entered to find Michael laying on the floor gasping for air and blue in the face. She seated him in his favorite backed chair and Lizzie took out the coat and put it over him.  He smiled weakly and mostly through his eyes.  Their worries took them through the rest of the day and into the night. Judith stayed by him all the night watching over him and making sure he was kept warm. She tried to feed him but he simply brushed it feebly aside.  The thought seemed to give him even louder coughing fits. Just past sunset and into dusk, grandpa stopped breathing altogether and slumped to the side in his chair.  Lizzie noticed it first, her tears trickling and dripping to the floor.  Judith hugged her father and wept over him, caressing his face and then kneeling and wailing on the floor.  Lizzie brought Judith a blanket and let her cry herself to sleep on the floor.  Lizzie thought long and hard about what she’d have to tell Mary.  She was just barely able to contain the tears herself and felt guilty that she couldn’t feel the same as her mother. 
The next morning, a tangerine colored sun rose dimly from the horizon and up behind a pink and purple paint-washed sky tinting the Perkin’s family yard with its dew weeping wild grasses. Judith returned grief stricken with the sad news. Mary took her own turn crying in her mother’s arms. Lizzie looked on and while she couldn’t cry, she felt miserable. She felt guilt for her lack of timing in making the coat, for her treatment of Mary, for not being able to mourn as much, for having made something so precious for him in vain. Her sadness sunk slow and lasted longer.  Judith took the long white apron from the front of her skirt and wiped Mary’s tears and patted her cheeks dry. All the children came in and cried at the news and John Sr unexpectedly broke into sobs and red eyes as well. John Sr. composed himself and went out with the boys to go out to his home and bury his father-in-law. 
Outside Michael’s home on the east side of the house stood several of the Gater family grave  markers. The Gater family  liked to keep their ancestors close. Mary remembered as he was being buried how Michael was going to show her even more wonderful things. His home was like a visit to the fairy worlds and nothing could compare with that experience. Now he was gone. Judith was now at a loss as to how to proceed with Mary’s training and given the gravity of Mary’s need to learn, one of her greatest opportunities was now being buried deep within the earth. He was not only a teacher but a constant supply of optimism and only now she realized, it was for them and not himself. His pains he kept secret all the while healing others of their maladies, he could do nothing for himself. Perhaps he knew it was futile and that the best thing he could do was to show one last bit of strength.
***
Next day, a shadow of mourning fell over the Perkins home. Passing clouds dimmed and lit the bare floors through their windows. John Sr and Jr. did most of the work as Judith and the girls were allowed time to let all their tears out and their  memories in.  Judith spent hours by candlelight writing everything she could remember into her book. She made Mary do the same. Judith slowly regained the need to do her chores and so she started to make butter again the next day but the despairing tone her butter chant slowed her. She’d look over at Mary and they both held a tear in their eye as they woefully exchanged sympathetic glances. 
As dusk soon arrived, Judith pulled herself up and put on her cloak. She whispered something to Lizzie who nodded secretively in response and then turned to her second oldest daughter, “Mary, it is time I take you to our kin’s land.”
With that, she took out Mary’s cloak and they both strolled through rolling grass mounds on their adventure. Lizzie stayed behind to tend the two baby boys. 
Outside the door Judith told her “Lizzie’s been out earlier today laying flowers on all the graves, and praying to the good Lord if he would send them to find papa.”.  She walked up to rain weathered mossy gravestones and pointed at one, “This is where mama is buried.“ Isabel Baylie was written on the tombstone. 
A gale of wind came through and rocked the tree branches making a few twig snaps and creak like the beams in a stony church. The dusk was now at its dimmest and the night fell within the hour. A green orb gently grew, floating above the other headstones and trees, a will-o-the-wisp. Judith seemed to take it as a sign. To Mary, these were common to the marshlands and while she may have seen one from a distance before, she never saw one close. Judith broke out with verse:
The Master is here.
And long would I tarry
But I open my cove
By St. Peter and Mary
A tap on the tree with a stick produced a very curious motion. Immediately, the vines parted over what now appeared to be a natural tree hollow archway that led into a cellar built into the cool north face of the hill. 
“Follow me.”
Inside this cellar was a wall of masonry. It was like a small mausoleum and a laboratory where a single casket lay in front of a wall with a recessed shelf stuffed with bottles on one side and skulls on another. Mary held onto dear breath as she beheld it’s marvel.  Judith gently took Mary by the arm to a chair and table in the middle of the room. 
“Today, I will share with you what my mother shared with me. You will carry forward the wisdom of the wives, continue our tales and our trade I do not ask an oath but as we are surrounded here by our mothers, what we say here will be binding. Are you willing to stay?“
“Yes mother.”
“I reveal to you now that I am both your mother and your Queen. A child’s loyalty is naturally to their mother first. This has not changed but has only become more sure. Your blood is precious and royal. You are an heir princess. Please ask me anything you wish freely here.“
“So if I am a princess, who will be my subjects?”
”We are not the Queens of this land. No, we are the Queens of something greater, a hidden kingdom that is as invisible as air and thought. The Realm of Wisdom, the crowning jewel of all mental powers. Many girls are gifted but you will be their ruler. If you cannot rule in force, then you will rule in influence and suggestion. Essentially, you will rule others without them knowing they are being ruled.” 
“Who can I tell?”
“No one. Never. We rule for power in ideas over glory. You will write books and your readers will be your court.  You may pass this secret on to your daughter, any fair-not-handsome son you have, and as a last resort, your most kindred in spirit who has manifested a gift.. I will give to you learning and tests in the arts of healing, charm, reading and writing, consultation with the spirits, both your ancestors and the dead of others. You will work miracle...some that are understood and others that are not. Some will call you a demon and some will call you an angel. Some will call you a witch and others will call you a Goodwife. Do not boast of yourself and call yourself anything. Let your virtues be your only title.”
Judith lit a fire in a fireplace in the dark with what seemed to be a mere snap of the fingers. Did she know some formula for fire or was she so powerful that she could summon it upon request?  The cold slowly faded into warmth and light. 
”You can have great influence even without fame. Protect your name and your power with the strongest of shields and that is secrecy. To have power is to be free. To be free, you cannot be in debt of mind to dogmas. You cannot be in debit to the gaoler by doing someone harm. You shall not act against their will and in so doing cause a rebellion against you. You will not contest their idea of their deity. It is futile. Do no harm to yourself. Do all you can to survive and continue. Subject yourself to no one other than your mother and your conscience, and do not borrow unless not doing so would cause you to commit act against the former. You may worship what you may and be loyal to your own dearest spirit or deity but to not enslave yourself to church or kingdom except it be to respect the wishes of those who do not contest your own or to avoid being discovered. You may follow their just intentions. You can appear to be theirs. You can serve your fellows but only after you serve your future generation. While you don’t have to subject yourself to them, it is your duty to serve and influence and in so doing have power and magic on your side. Set out ideas, whisper and listen wherever you go.” Judith paused to breathe, “First, I give you your magic wand. You can create anything you want with this.”
“How can I do that?”
“Just believe me, it will come to you. Your first test of magic is to summon a bird. The best bird you can.”  Judith handed Mary a carpenter’s pencil. Mary suddenly realized what was expected. She had watched mother draw before. Mary took the pencil and sketched a bird. Judith lit a candle and left her there to draw. Mary finished sketching but then noticed her mother had left. For a moment, Mary thought her mother might have just vanished or flew up the chimney given what she just saw. Mary started to get scared but she waited patiently. Mary couldn’t tell if it was day or night after a while. Mary had drawn a blue jay. In the passing hours, Mary took time to perfect her drawing in little details. After she finished drawing, she slept at the table. When she awoke, Judith had returned.
“This looks very nice. I am not judging you solely on talent. You can tell a lot about a person by how they draw a simple image of a bird. This is beautiful Mary. You’ve surpassed my expectations and I can see now where you have potential ability and I will help you master it. I give you the name Corinna. It means you are a Raven and a Queen raven is to a king like a dragon is to a catfish. You can do what your heart speaks with this gift and you can fly into the night.”
Judith put her hand on the door and held it there as she cautioned Mary, “Tell no one of this place, use it only when you need to escape but let none follow you here. In that case, lead them to their own danger. If anything befalls this place, it is up to you to make another like it and at least as hidden if you can manage it.”
Mary smiled. She heard some birds chirping at that point and looked about and saw that early dawn light was starting to break through where they had entered late at dusk. As Mary emerged, the world seemed to take on a new rose tinted hue.
Being that it was the height of summer, the Perkin family’s modest home took on a tiring, muggy hot air. The Perkins children were starting to feel the dull agitations of cabin fever. In Hilmorton, there were a few taverns where Sergeant John Perkins regularly went. He handed Judith a purse and said, “Take the children out to one of the ordinaries on the main road and let them eat whatever they want.”
Judith realized she’d need to pack for her babies there, at least changing cloth enough for a day. There were occasionally women working as wet nurses at the ordinaries. There was no shortage of mothers who had lost children this year. She remembered there would always a lot of activity there, there would be butter, wool, herbs and medicines she’d pack for the trading post. Her husband often guarded the ordinaries to ensure there was no troubles from drunkenness or theft there. The family often went there together and settled by other ladies and their husbands to avoid the obnoxiously loud crowds in the bar area where all the courting and drinking occurred. 
***
The entire Perkins entourage arrived at the Hilmorton ordinaries. The ordinaries were a bustling combination store, tavern, trading post and entertainment center. Bird cages lined the arched hallways. The gentry were coddling their poodles as marketeers tried to upstage the tide of barking that followed each passerby. After unloading their goods and hauling them over the main porch, they made rounds to say hellos and sell the items they could sell to the merchant there. Judith took Thomas and Jacob with her to chat with a mother who had just had her first child. Johnny, seeing some of his friends left to chat with them and left the money bag with Henry. Lizzie, Henry and Mary found a corner table all to themselves. Henry ordered a plate of stew and a pot of ale for all to share. Lizzie and Mary  were quiet and Henry glanced at Lizzie.
“Mary, I’m sorry I was cross with you,” spoke Lizzie. 
“I am sorry…” started Mary
“No, don’t apologize, I searched my heart and found the sin of covetousness towards you. I should be more stalwart as your older sister to check my heart when it comes to what you receive. I usually receive those things first before you. I was not wise to forget that. My melancholy and pains have been working on me. Forgive me?”
Henry smiled and nodded at Mary. 
“Yes, of course. You’re my older sister and I do all in my power to be true to you and share all I have with you.”  Mary thought back to her night in the cave. She didn’t know if Lizzie knew all that or not. She had not had any instruction on what they could discuss with each other as a family.  
“I think I know how you’re feeling Mary. I know you want to say something but do not let it worry you.”
“Lizzie, can we speak of such things here?”
“Oh, I was not going to say much more. Don’t fret.”
“Dinner is served!” announced the barkeeper with long grey hair and a wispy beard. With that, a large plate steaming with hot brown gravies, smelling like a Christmas roast came out. Cooked beets, rutabagas and carrots glistened among the chunks of meat.  He handed each of them a plate.
Mary’s eyes were much bigger than her stomach and she passed her stew to Henry. Lizzie ate all of hers. 
“Henry, where do you hide all that stew?”
Henry jokingly shot an angry scowl but then grinned, his mouth too full to answer.  His plate was soon clear followed by Lizzie’s. Just before they left, they noticed some footmen storm into the dining area. Mary overheard their conversation.
“I’ll be hanging in chains if I don’t find it immediately!”  
“I swore it was right here!”
“Some pick pocket’s unlucky day just arrived.”
Henry was lazily leaving the table and did not notice Mary grabbing the Perkin’s coin pouch and leaving with Lizzie to meet mother. On the bench where Mary sat had been a second coin pouch and it looked a bit similar to the one Sergeant Perkins, their father owned.  As Henry lagged behind and thought Mary had left the family’s money behind, he picked up the strange coin pouch and carried it off.  As he was catching up to Mary and Lizzie, one of the soldiers pointed to Henry’s pouch shouting in a thick rural Worcestershire accent. “I caught him the little cutpurse!” as he grabbed Henry by the collar.
Mary looked around hearing his voice in the distance and not finding Henry grew concerned, but the soldiers were blocking her view and she started to panic and wonder if he was part of that.
Henry was confused with this soldier’s aggression and thought low of his class thinking he might be a thief.  He wasn’t aware that the coin pouch he was carrying was not his own but theirs left behind by accident.  He therefore defended his claim to what he thought was his family’s money in his hand.  It was hard earned and unforgivable to lose. He was not used to this kind of treatment given his father’s social status as well as his similar position in rank. 
“That’s ours!”, Henry protested but the brash sounding footman overpowered him and grabbed the pouch pulling on it as shrunk back. 
The footman glared at him with a rotting smile on his coarse unshaven and grease smudged face and swung the coin bag against the boy’s head. “Ye don’t want to let go do ye?” 
Mary finally made her way through the room in view of Henry and was there watching just as this footman swung his bag at him after yanking it back.  The coins clashed and clinked against Henry’s head.   Henry’s voice let out a loud “oomph” and struggled to swallow and breathe.  He looked blue and struggled with a few more breaths and fell on the floor rolling. One of the soldiers yelled at him, “Why did you do that?” And they started arguing. 
Mary and Lizzie yelled, “Mother! Get in here!” 
Both let out screams of terror as they saw him rolling around on the floor rhythmically convulsing and vomiting. Judith came in the room, looked towards Henry and let out a high pitched scream and for a moment, the room seemed to shudder. She dashed between the footmen and her traumatized son, and gave the attacking footman a look that made him turn pale, freezing stiff. He fell back onto a few steps and braced a wall and started gasping for air himself. His companions stepped back watching her suspiciously. Judith knelt down holding helplessly to him  and comforting him, clearing everything around him. Everyone backed away and several townsfolk ran to get help. Henry continued flailing weakly for minutes under his mother’s red, wet wailing face and finally collapsed; completely drained of his last fight for life. She tried to shock him back to life with hand gestures on his body and waved her hands over him. Judith stubbornly continued to no avail. She was not used to being so helpless. She had often been the one to rescue others when they fell but with her own son this day, she felt utterly helpless and useless to him although her sense of disappointment in herself was completely overwhelmed by the apparent loss of her son. Her eyes and mind could not agree and she refused to believe he could no longer be helped despite being usually able to know full well she couldn’t possibly help him any longer.  A mother’s son can never be given up on. Mary and Lizzie came up at this time looking on in terror, starting to realize their mother’s complete mental breakdown. “Come back Henry!” “Come back!” “Come back!”...Judith repeated over, soon joined by Lizzie, Mary and Johnny. Judith’s friend had been tending her youngest seeing her in need and unable to ask for help, she naturally stepped in without a second thought.. Johnny went to look for his father. However, another well-dressed sergeant and a captain with even shinier boots, clean vestments and black leather scabbard strode in. “What did you do!?” he shouted at the footman. 
“Tha’ thief took our coins and refused to give ‘ar back so I took it fro’ him.”
“What did you to the boy?!” the captain demanded looking him dead in the eye.
Judith looked at him and he started stammering. The sergeant whispered to his captain, “That’s his mother.”  
“Tha’ knave was the thief who took our bill collecting,” he plead with his explanation.
Judith clenched her teeth and got a word out finally, “He is no thief.” as she looked through each of them as she held Henry in her arms, not letting him go. 
Another of the footman’s party spoke,“We had that coin purse when we sat down but I don’t remember it being with us when we got up. We left it behind and he just took it with him instead of leaving it there for someone else to take. I don’t know what was in his mind to do with it.”
Mary came forward very bravely as she was not accustomed to talking to adults like this at age ten but she was desperately explaining as best as she could despite her own sobs, “Do you mean that pouch?”
“Yes,” he answered.
“Not this one?” she practically growled, her cheeks wet with tears but brows furled in anger, distraught with these overbearing men who just knocked out her brother.  Mary too was hoping he was just knocked out warm not cold.  She wasn’t ready to think of him as dead yet.  She looked down at him with her mother holding and rocking him, then at the pouch in the footman’s hands and then at the pouch in her hand and realized how similar they were.  She held up the Perkin family’s coin look alike coin pouch.  The footmen all looked around at one another in disbelief.  Mary was deep in thought considering everything that just took place and then attempted to clear the confusion and calmly explain what she saw must have happened, “He must have thought we left our pouch behind. But we took our own pouch unbeknownst to him and so he might have picked yours up, thinking it was ours.”
“So tha’ were two bags?” said the brash footman, his black burley brows turning from their usual gruffness to a wide-eyed and dazed look. 
Mary nodded and repeated it to ensure they were seeing what she had, still exasperated, “We sat down to eat together and, if he took it, he couldn’t have taken it from you because he was with me the entire time. You must have left your bag at the table. And as I took ours when we got up, my brother, must have picked up your pouch….by mistake!”  
Mary’s voice started to crack as she looked down at Henry again, his face pale.  A sinking feeling came over her that he might be dead. Mary broke but couldn’t say the words, “You hurt  my dear brother Henry! He was innocent!” She couldn’t stop the sobs anymore. “You, you accused him. Accused him falsely….of taking your...your pouch.” 
A sickening realization came over her that she was part to blame.  If she hadn’t picked up the pouch for him, he would have seen there were two pouches.  Her heart sank further. Emotion weighed heavily.  Too many of them all at once. She knelt down at Henry. Lizzie stared angrily at the footmen but was joining everyone at Henry’s side.  
Everything that happened next was a blur of argument, pain, grief and exhaustion for them. When Sergeant John Perkins Sr. came in, he bared his fists and asked what happened.  The captain told him that this overzealous footman had struck the boy who was mistaken in picking up a pouch he thought was theirs.  Sergeant Perkins mouth dropped with each passing word and red anger flared up. The footman’s face drew his eyes wider in a look of sudden ignorance.  Sergeant Perkins stared at his son’s now lifeless body and Judith rocking him hopelessly and then back at the footman. “You killed my son over this tiny pouch of coins?!”
Before the footman could stammer about it being an accident, he was being pushed, tackled to the ground and grappled and then beaten senseless. He held his arms out to block John’s blows in vain. Their brawl was now taking over the bar, Sergeant Perkins was unleashing fury knocking down chairs, breaking legs on just about every piece of furniture that had legs.  He also broke both the man’s forearms, pulled the shoulder out of joint and broke his shin and feet,    rendering him lame for the rest of his life.
Sergeant Perkins was reprieved of any retribution for the maiming of the footman given he had lost his son. The court case was informal and quick. The other man was never seen on duty again. It was rumored he continued to live in his frailty for the rest of his days well into old age.
***
Back home, Judith finally came to terms with the death of her son. Mary still felt a daze over the thought of Henry being dead.  She had just seen her grandfather die, now Henry?  Everywhere she went, she saw reminders of him, memories of him.  She wondered if anyone in the world could resurrect the dead.  She couldn’t bring herself to talk about it with anyone. Life seem so suddenly unfair.  Judith saw Mary losing her temper, becoming unhinged and cursing.  Mary was angry with the gods, the world, everyone and herself. Mary’s depression grew deep to the point of staring into space while milking cows, knocking over milk, and hoping for punishment just to be able to feel again.  What kind of world would allow her last grandfather and closest brother Henry to die so quick? Lizzie, being a twin was despondent too.  Mary rocked in her bed and did not change out of  her nightgown and wept for hours on end. She tried hard to recall Henry’s last words to her. She held tight to all her last memories with him and went over them, ruminating for hours. When someone broke her train of thought or sought her attention, she would fake a smile to avoid their concern. She was fixated on how strange it was to have someone in your life suddenly go. Lizzie was coming down with a fever and Judith had to get back into action helping her. Judith couldn’t bear the thought of losing Lizzie too.
***
The rain beat the rooftops over the Perkin’s home and windows were shuttered and hooked against the winds. Candles were lit all inside and over the hearth during the wake. Judith was first to hear the knock at the door. “John?” she called out in her husband-fetching tone. 
“Hello?” he asked through a crack in the door.
“I heard the sad news. This is for you.”. He handed John a thin wood box. As John opened it, he saw a large baked item that looks like cake or bread. 
“Thank you, We could sure use this right now.”
The wet dark haired and lean but strong looking man who looked like he could be an uncle sat down before their fire. 
“You know, I’ve been hoping you could join me at church this Sunday….St. John the Baptist church?”
“If we are truly cursed, would this be prudent for us to go?“ John replied.
“All of us have seen you grieve and tear your hearts up over the matter of your son. It would be prudent for you to end your mourning and start anew with your living. The sheriff over the ordinaries has restored your pay to what it was since you owed for the damages you dealt him. Your sins are also forgiven.”
Judith nods to her husband. 
“They also say the Viscount will be there and wants to see you.”
“Then we will go..”
“However, the main event will be the memorial for your son. I will count your intended presence there.”
Mary watched them from the corner of the room. Father cut the bread into portions for the family and guest. Four large portions, a couple medium portions for Mary and Lizzie and a small one for Thomas. Jacob would be getting his milk later that evening. 
***
Sunday morning arrived with rooks swooping overhead as the Perkins flock came pouring through the double wooden doors of St. John the Baptist church. Sergeant Perkins, Judith and now five children all wore hats and veils. It was customary but the degree to which they lived their customs seemed odd to everyone else. Before the stony chapel, a crew of stable boys was tending to a team of white horses hitched to posts. The stable boys removed their hats in acknowledgment. The interior of the chapel was ornate. A leaded glass window opened to sun.  A woody and resinous incense filled the room. Judith thought it smelled of frankincense and pine. The Parson there, wore a gold vestment that seemed even more gaudy than his usual robes. A friar wandered the aisles. 
“Greetings to the family of Sergeant Perkins. The Lord Bless you in coming here this day.”
As they were seated, their expectations to be offered the Funeral Service from the Book of Common Prayer for Henry’s passing was quickly manifested. Judith had brought her handkerchief with aromatics to revive her or anyone else should she pass out and another cloth to catch the weeping from her eyes. Judith’s sobbing could be heard over the voices in Latin by a chorus of eight older boys singing for Henry. Most of the words were unintelligible Latin followed by some admonition to prayer from what Mary could tell.
***
At the end of the service, they exited the chapel to the rose and wildflower ethers of the church yard. A nobleman with a dark felt hat, a thick frilly and bright white neckcloth and a napped black woolen coat approached Judith, the same one she saw earlier at the theatre.  He spoke in a softer voice from what she could remember.  “I’m so sorry Good Sir, Dear Lady. I originally planned to see my own kin here this day but could not bear to do so with such great loss that so recently happened here and so here I am, in hopes of comforting you.“, Sergeant Perkins straightened himself, as the Viscount of St. Alban looked at him and continued, “Here is something to help with your loss. “
“I beg you, I cannot take it my Lord.” replied Sergeant Perkins. 
“I have to insist. I also have something writings here for you. A copy of a tawdry play of mine, The New Atlantis, the new Holy Bible, some classic works and a treatise for all of us Strangers.”
A young squire stepped forward with a small wooden chest and handed it over to Sergeant Perkins. It was heavier than he had supposed. He tried to keep his posture and hold back a weak smile as if he had no difficulty lifting it. 
“Knowledge requires much strength, I know.” he said with a smile.
Johnny gave a weak chuckle, his usual response but now feeling out of place given the mood, still, it had been a while since they had last laughed at anything. The Viscount nodded to him but quickly moved on with a more serious tone, “I’ll have some victuals sent over to your home later.”
“May I have your lovely children’s names my dear?” he indicated at Judith, almost as if he already knew them and was just making a segue to talk with them. 
“John, Lizzie, Mary, Thomas and Jacob”, she replied matter-of-factly.
 He casually asked each of them questions on their favorite sport and hobby but for Mary he made comment, “What a beautiful girl you are Mary, do you like to read?”
“Yes my Lord, I can read all the signs in the pub. I read and write a little every day,” she looked at Judith to see if she might have over-stretched her statement, she did and followed up with, “well, almost every day, when I remember to, but I do enjoy it.”
He chuckled, “Mannered, precocious, honest...”
“Your mother is a very smart Lady, and you are so much like your mother Mary. Your sister is also very patient and in that there is much wisdom. You’re in good hands, you’ll be looking after them as they look after you.”
Judith handed him a piece of paper. Mary thought she saw the sketch of the bird she drew earlier. As he looked it over, he looked at Mary and smiled again, “Any time you need some helpful reading, take a look at the little book with the cross on it.”
Judith took the Viscount aside out of the earshot of the rest.  “What did you mean by ‘It’s Mary.’ Francis?”
“Judith, back there at the theatre, when the dust exploded, several of us saw Mary staring deeply into space, not just staring, but her eyes, her eyes...were...different. We know she’s got your gift.  We also know her future is much more perilous.  She will be noticed in time by those who would destroy her.  If they succeed, her gifts may be lost forever.  The power a girl like her possesses is taken to the grave and back again. If they can get her to deny herself, then her soul must take a new course and everything else will be lost.  But what’s worst, the world she will help build may fall to tyranny--that same tyranny you see going on now.”
“What can I do?”
“There’s not much you can do except to complete the training you would give her anyway. Teach her to stay true to herself at all costs. Don’t let her stray too far from you. Let her know she is important to the rest of us. We will be sending others to watch over her.  She will be watched over the rest of her life if need be.  The time is coming soon when everything will change.  Everything you see before you now will disappear and something else will take its place.”
Judith’s brow furled in worry again disrupting her older but still pretty face even if it she did color her visage a bit much. He drew his hand over his eye to look at the sun on the horizon and with a sigh. “It would be time to go!” and with that, his retinue gathered around him and whisked him away as almost if he rested on a cloud of velvet caps which is men in waiting wore. The sound of the white horses whinnied in the background and soon his coach was seen stirring up the dust over the greens of the valley. He waved from his coach and everyone waved back at him as he rode through.
***
The Perkins home main parlour was filled with children lining up before the dressing screen to devest Sunday’s finery. An impatient Judith forewent changing to crack open this curious little chest. She knew it was unlikely but secretly hoped there might be jewelry with precious gems buried inside somewhere. As it swung open and dust cleared, a neat stack of books materialized. One of them was Cicero. Beneath it, The New Atlantis, The Holy Bible, Hamlet, The Tiller then the mysterious little book with the cross on it. She cracked it open. The initials R.C. appeared on it. There were alchemical pictures and a series of seventy and fifty spells in Latin each with prologues and epilogues. There was a list of scientific laws and then this creed:
Love God above all.
Devote your time to your spiritual advancement
Be entirely unselfish
Be temperate, modest, energetic, and silent
Learn to know the origins of the metals contained within thyself
Beware of quacks and pretenders
Live in constant adoration of the highest good
Learn the theory before you attempt the practice
Exercise charity towards all beings
Read the ancient books of wisdom
Try to understand their secret meaning.
Below that was a penned passage:
To Mary, I hope this serves you well. F.B.
In the bottom corner of the box they received was a tiny stained wooden box with checker patterns on it looking like alabaster and ivory. Judith’s eyes lit up. On it was a family crest with a red shield, chiefed in white with two pierced black stars crested with a boar passant in blue ermine. It was the most ornate little box any of them had laid eyes on. A little string and a note was attached the lip of the box. As Judith picked up the box and read the note, her eyes widened and her mouth dropped, her eyes moving back and forth rapidly which indicated to everyone she was reading and then re-reading being it was such a small note. Her expression diminishing stare seemed to depict fear more than hope.  Mary looked panicked. What did it say?
***
