Mary was at the butter churn and Elizabeth was spinning at the spinning wheel by the fire as the sun set.  The box was on the table with the slip of paper.  It read in tiny print:

When on the cheeks of a presbytery, 
The double snakes do show a sign to thee;
Take up thine house and with thy family sail
A year wait not or peril will prevail
And when the queen is checked by knights a-pair
Then case will breach and rook will capture there.
DO NOT OPEN!

Judith could feel the danger in it’s tone and was suddenly aware of its implication that they would have to leave all behind and sail the dangerous seas and take this Box of Pandora with them as their sole protection.  The prospect of war and more losses loomed in those subtle chess play references as Judith had read so much before.  The past few years had been hectic with religious quarrels and just this last summer, the prophecy had come true.  Doctor and Presbyterian preacher Alexander Leighton was branded on the cheeks for writing a controversial pamphlet that labeled him a “Sower of Sedition” and thus he was disfigured with the letters SS or as was hinted, two snakes. Judith felt sympathy for him and the Presbyterians in general despite her perceptions of the Scottish.  He was, after all, a doctor. Now, they only had a year left to leave and many had already started since His Majesty had disbanded Parliament, essentially ignoring the voice of the people and running the kingdom under.  
Her son John, already 21, was courting a girl and he would have to leave her behind. Elizabeth however was too giddy about leaving.  Judith was afraid she’d become the typical “spinster”. Judith had always felt up to this point that Mary was too young for all of that despite the fact it was common for girls to run off with some wealthy Lord. The boys were taking up most of her time and needing much discipline in between baking through the harsh cold storms. 
“Mother, when are we leaving?”
“As soon the Lyon or some ship arrives Lizzie, I keep telling you! Mind your Mother when she tells you these things.  The Good Lord willing, it will be this month.”
“My friends were showing me the finest cotton and there is all kinds of warm fur, there’s silver, gold, jewelry!.  Oh and so much sugar and candy you could open your own candy shoppe!”
“Lizzie, those are all wonderful but I hear it’s also very dangerous!  Although, the way things are going now, I can’t say it’s safe here!”
John chimed in now: “Mom, you wouldn’t believe that there are so many wild stags there, you could eat stew and pies all day just by walking out your door and taking one down in the morning!”
Judith could tell they were hungry.  They had plenty but it was packed and waiting. They’d carry some of their own provisions on board. She didn’t quite trust the provisions they’d supply on ship and she wanted a sure option for her family. 
Thomas, in his soft little voice spoke: “I want a pipe like the doctors have”
“Thomas, that’s just a silly vanity!  We need not do like those doctors. ”
The loudest door creak suddenly split the air and a giant gust of cold snow blew in sputtering snowflakes that quickly melted wet onto them.  Big leathery boots stomped and the door slammed shut with another quick and loud ear piercing Creeeeak!
It was soon apparent the cause of such a sudden burst.  Sergeant John Perkins announced, “It’s here! We’re leaving!”
The sudden realization made Elizabeth visibly gulp.  She was suddenly excited and fearful at the same time.  While she wanted the luxuries all the girls were chattering about, she felt a sudden sink in her belly as she realized she would be leaving home…..home, indefinitely.  It felt like it had just occurred to her that she would go alright but never get to parade any of it to her friends.  She would miss them terribly.  
***
That week they filled cases and odd boxes full of clothing, firkins of butter, dried cakes, honey, fruit preserves, a barrel of well-salted pork, cutlery, pots, dried meats, cheeses, wines and a cask of ale the next several days.  John made a neat bill of all the goods he wanted to take but even with all their preparation, they had forgotten a lot of little things.  John had to sell his home at a discount to the neighbors whose son had just married that last Sunday.  He had used the farm home to pay the harbormaster in Bristol for his family’s passage to Boston. Just in time to move in, he thought to himself. But with that, he chuckled to himself thinking what a mess it might be that he’d have to move into.  He would be going to a beautiful new alien land of opportunity with new peoples and animals and mountains of gold to be found. He had to either butcher or sell off his animals this week.  He hated the task but diligently gave thanks to his Father in Heaven and Mother in Earth for the Providence shown to him as he looked up to the solar fiery orb in the clouds above. 
They went to the tavern next to sell the last of the animals, egg laying ducks, their sheep and goat dog, a couple egg laying chickens, and one of last year’s calves and picked up fresh spices, all kinds of powders and salts from the apothecary, new wools, new boots and flasks with cords. Elizabeth was especially thrilled with the chance to go on the shopping spree of her life and say goodbye to their friends.  Finally, John scheduled the coaches and carts to come by and take them and their family’s last remnants of wealth with them to Bristol in early February.
Mary was busy helping mom pack and prepare the last of the meat which they needed to cure before their coaches arrived.  Judith put the little box from the Viscount in her pocket for good luck.  Elizabeth packed her spinning wheel and chair. John packed hunting knives and spears.  Thomas and Jacob had hobby horses.  Then they waited...in part due to the exhaustion they were all having but also because the coaches were running late due to bad weather.  John was sent up the road to the top of the hill to keep an eye out for them.  After a morning of waiting, they quickly got bored and went to work doing a final sweep and looking over their home. Every so often they’d listen for John.  John came back that evening with sullen disappointment.  They took to lighting a fire and then took to bed with their cloaks and a shared bed warmer which they passed around to stay warm.  
***
They awoke again to a chilly, clear, ice and frost morning and John went on the lookout.  Mary had already started opening one of their smaller boxes for some dried meat, bread and butter.  Just before noon, the coach could be seen bouncing along the road at a slow pace.  
“They’re here! They’re here!”, shouted John and everyone ran up to greet him.  Soon Mary was helped up onto the coach while John Sr and John Jr. were packing up the one wagon.  Here, they would hop from inn to inn in the cold month of January. 
***
As they arrived in Bristol, they were immediately greeted and given a day of rest for their travels.  Judith, Elizabeth and Mary had a chance to meet Rebecca Throckmorton in the nursery room.  Rebecca was Elizabeth’s age and they instantly hit it off.  Rebecca was a beautiful girl with rosy cheeks and porcelain complexion and a cheerful smile.  She had the most beautiful dresses of dark reds and blues.  Her husband by common law John soon came along to pick her up.  They were packing the ship full of provisions, requested supplies from the colony, and working day and night under the loud voice of Captain Pierce.  There were huge barrels of beer, and others of all different sizes, bushels of oatmeal, all kinds of salted fish, casks of butter and cheese that looked like it outweighed the passengers, rumlets of imported wines, a hogshead of beef per person.  There were only a handful of sailors, a quartermaster was carefully checking the goods as they came on board.  Others helped to lower them into the bottom of the ship.  When it got dark, candlelight was seen and the fife could be heard trilling happy tunes while deep voices soulfully droned the tunes of their shanties. 
***
The morning arrived when they’d be boarding.  There was expected many more passengers but the cold weather had prevented them from boarding.  The brass of bells could be heard ringing and people scurried to the gangplank and onto the main deck.  Captain Pierce, a very fatherly and neatly dressed man greeted them cheerfully on board.  Then, in a gruffer voice, he bellowed: “Waylon!”
“Aye Captain!”, a wiry lad with ripped arms stepped out and snapped into place. He looked fiercely cool, hard jaw but soft red slightly cracked lips. His muscled arms were tanned deep olive brown. Deep blue eyes pierced out of locks of wavy black hair that he swung out of the way by cocking his head back. Mary and Elizabeth both locked their gaze at him.  
“Show these gentle folks to their cabins.”
“Aye aye Captain”, he smiled given that he had never done this duty before.  A boatswain was often too busy with the sails but they were short staffed.  Some of the sailors would stay behind to do repairs.  Waylon was the youngest and most enthusiastic member of the crew at nineteen years.  
Judith had to push her girls forward to start them up the ramp and to catch up with her husband who had his two boys on each side. Judith had a half smile planted and made subtle eye-roll  as she realized what her daughters were dumbfounded over.  John Jr. hinted earlier with an audible stomp on the ramp which shook it slightly. 
They went onto the main deck and down the ladder and into the cabins.   It smelled damp with mildew. The sound of cargo shifting and hammers came from the floor below and the craft bobbed ever so slightly as they landed on the deck below. A spare cabin was pointed out. 
“Reverend, this cabin will be yours.”  
There were open pads of bedding laying around which seemed to be fore the servants.  There were curtains for a changing room along with a sign.  From below, an older stocky man with a beard came up from the holding deck and rasped:  “We’re all tight mate.”
“Superb Jake, tell Captain” replied Waylon. Even though Waylon was his junior and weaker, Jake the Dutchman had a servile demeanor and habitually ducked his head in acknowledgement as he ascended into the skylit port to the main deck. Waylon looked older and more menacing in the dark with the few windows lighting the scene.  His manly voice and strikingly handsome face was even more pronounced to Mary who breathed a deep sigh.  Her mind started to drift into a sensual place she hadn’t felt in such a way before. Waylon gazed back at her for a moment, their eyes locked and she suddenly felt a panic and glanced away.  He continued to stare at her.  His dark mustache and eyebrows punctuated a little bit of longing before he too broke away and continued in speech to the other guests.  She couldn’t hear what the words were, her mind was so entangled with his sheer majesty and confidence.  The last words he said rung in her head “Good Day Fair Ladies and Gentle Lords”, sounding almost a bit too impressive raising the corners of her mouth into a slight grin of feeling like maybe she could entrance him again. 
She could hear commands above as soon as he rose out.  She thought she heard a  “Fend off.” “Bend the jib”, “Furl the main”, “Weigh anchor, “Set the sails”, “Anchor’s aweigh” among some high pitched whistles mixed with Waylon’s voice. 
They all let their satchels and parcels and belongings drop.  Judith held her sons and helped them to nap, putting the mystery box in a makeshift inner pocket she was used to sewing into clothes, just inside her skirt.  The boys took off their shoes and jumped on the bedding in their stockings.  
There was a lot of running heard overhead and the passengers were huddled out of the way, waiting in the dark, sometimes spotting a rat or a pair of glowing eyes.  
Another deep whistle was heard and Mary went to the window, seeing the water pick up a rapid pace outside and rattling through the chop, the icy wind draft foreboding of the likely sniffles to come.  Her stomach went into a knot, feeling much like the cables and ropes outside. John and Judith pulled her down.  Elizabeth had left to chat with Rebecca. John was out touring the boat. John was the curious adventure lover as usual. 
As she went up to the main deck, she saw Waylon, staring at the sails, continuing to watch them for any ill sign, listening to the yards creak and the billows ruffling with the fortunate gusts of air they started. He was seated, fanning his legs and humming a tune. He smiled at her.
Mary went into a blush for being so noticed.  Seeing this, he pulled back his gaze and lofted his eyes towards the sails again as if intently needing to watch for lightning strikes.  Mary couldn’t help but look him over, from boot to neck with the corner of her eye while pretending to glance away.  His boots were leather, scuffed and dampened with soot and oils and split brandy.  His pants were loose and going threadbare from the elements. She couldn’t help but notice his manhood, defined just enough through the cloth so that she could see its shapes juggled by his legs that  continued their rhythm.  She felt an instant pang of guilt but it also set her lustful passions aflame.  She forced her eyes shut a moment and continued to look at his belt flat over his belly, a buckle in place.  His shirt was loose also and had a small tear on the arm outside.  It revealed his collar, his sinewed shoulders and soft black tufts on his muscular chest. He had a visible Adam’s apple and she saw him gulp just then which broke her gaze thinking he might notice her ogling him.  He was still looking up and away. She looked at his hands, rough and thick, calloused to match the many ropes would throw and pull about.  Mere seconds of taking it all in was enough time for him to stand up and shake his clothing loose about him.  
He bowed, “Little Miss”.
She was disappointed at that, she suddenly felt five years younger but gave a quick curtsey which seemed to catch his eye and make him gulp again.  “Sir” she replied.  
It also felt wrong.  He broke a smile and went to climb up a rope.  She watched him in awe, taking in the view of a man she was very heavily lusting for and who seemed to return the favor.  She wasn’t used to this attention and feeling.  It burned her inside, feeling instantly painful like the heartbreak of death and yet so hopeful.  Her heart danced wildly inside her, as if to play a temptress that she could barely keep locked inside the cage of her chest. That would doom her.  She knew it was a very forbidden feeling but here she was, old enough to be married, and here was an ocean of water from which she couldn’t drink in her mind.  What would her mother think of her falling in love with this boy?  He might have been a Spaniard from his looks.  His features contrasted much more than hers.  His eyes were soulful despite his otherwise hardset chiseled looks. His smile soft.  Was he really as fascinated with her as she was with him?  
“Mary!?” came a shout. 
Mary ran over to what she considered an inconspicuous, do nothing spot on the ship away from everyone and looked out to the sea as she heard mom climbing the ladder. Waylon looked down and took notice.  He realized her mother was coming up and became busy with the sails but sneaking a glance down.  He saw her fair arms and neck which were so dainty compared to his. When mom came up, Mary walked towards her. 
“We have to wash up for dinner.”
“Come quick, they’re showing us where to hang our laundry and where to find the soap.”
“She left in mom’s hand and then took a last look at Waylon who was now preoccupied.”
“More than anything she longed for him.  Food was burdensome to her new daydreams.  She thought what it might be like to kiss him on the lips.”
“Mary, what is it?”
Her stare was distant and looked to Judith as if she was staring at a bird falling from the sky. Mary came to and picked up where she left off.  She knew Judith knew what was happening somehow.  “I know it’s a huge ship and a lot to take in Mary.”  Judith was now helping to cover for her obvious love trance. 
***
At dinner, Mary could barely eat or think.  Who could she talk to?  The biscuits were hard and dry and tasted old.  She drank her ale and gave her brother John the rest of her bread.  He finished it in no time. John and his hollow legs she thought. 
As it got dark, she heard a whistle for the passengers to come up to main deck. One of the few whistles the passengers had learned.  Captain Pierce was there explaining how life would be different, how God’s infinite Wisdom had guided him on these seas many years since the Mayflower, how he felt it was a great Blessing but that he was not the best to speak on such things and so he introduced Reverend Williams.  Reverend Williams gave an impassioned speech that was very novel.  He spoke of a new start, a new relationship with God and a new church. Towards the end, it went into a teacher and student question and answer mode.  They got a feel for his leanings.  
When the Reverend asked if he was a Quaker he said “No.”. This was John Throckmorton..who was ruggedly handsome.  Mary thought he would be dreamy enough if she hadn’t just seen the most handsome man she had ever laid eyes on. He was the kind of man Mary thought most people might expect her to marry when she was older.  Judith tried to avoid the topic.  When Elizabeth had once mentioned boys, Judith would tell her in a stern voice “No, no, you are too young!  Only when a man approaches a lady’s parents should she even consider him!”  This seemed very unreasonable to Mary but Elizabeth seemed resigned to accept it and it now seemed she would never have the chance.
Reverend Roger Williams was a gaunt, tall man but with a round face, premature greys silvering his once darker hair.  He wasn’t wearing a wig of any kind like she would expect. He had a small collar on and a cane that he would tap on the deck, irritating the crew.  Still, he was kind and grandfatherly.  She had a sudden thought of her own grandfather.  His hair was cropped in front and long in back but his face more sucken and older. He had a dark waistcoat on with buttons, well protected from the elements as it seemed stuffed with layers of clothing. He ended his sermon with admonitions after a lot of whispers in the crowd.  One of his admonitions was that the kingdom of God should never succumb to any other kingdom on this earth, that the two had very different meanings.  He took out the new official King James bible and read the passages where Jesus answered Pontius Pilate:  My kingdom is not of this world: if my kingdom were of this world, then would my servants fight.
John Throckmorton threw his hands up and applauded, prompting the crew to do so too.  The crew seemed a little tired of sermons and welcomed the lively change of mood.  Mary remembered the initiation she had received from Judith.  She agreed.  Wherever she would be lead to now, she would not want to see the affairs of corrupt kings and leaders polluting the pristine truth and holy sanctuary of deity.  She wanted to see a day when a person’s devotions were not checked by the leaders of this earth.  She saw another family there.  The Onge family headed by Edmond Onge and she saw a man who introduced himself to the congregation as Mr. Parke who was quiet and kept to himself.  Mr. Parke was also regularly tired from having drink. Mary thought to herself that he might just drink the ship dry before they got to Boston and end up trying to sleep through it within the cradling arms of Insobriety. 
After such a serious sermon, John and Judith were ready for something lighter.  The sailors came out and put on a little show, told stories, played music and otherwise played the wags with them through an endless night.  Before long almost everyone was doubled up in laughter and enjoying drink.  Reverend Williams, trying to maintain his reputation abstained from strong drink and opted for a very light beer instead and avoided being overly entertained, seeming as if he felt a bit upstaged. He’d crack a light grin or chuckle but he was not the type to hoot or holler. 
Mary enjoyed every moment of romantic singing, comedic songs, some of which mocked the other kings and other ships of the Winthrop fleet.  There was a ditty about the sad fate the a sister ship, The Ambrose which suffered critical damage to her mast.  She watched steadfastly when Waylon came up to play the fife.  His trills of notes sent shivers up her spine and at times, she saw him smiling at her as if playing his song just for her.  She felt embarrassed.  Why hadn't she put on her most beautiful gown that night?  Even though he was dressed as but a sailor, a lowly coxswain or some such to her father, she wanted him as if he were ‘her king’. 
“The older adults” of her family and the Throckmortons were engaging in conversation as the music faded into the background.  The two boys were checked on periodically.  Amongst the random laughter, stories and jibber jabber, Mary saw an opportunity.  Judith threw Mary a glare of caution but seeing Waylon as a kind, handsome respectable boy, she decided it was futile and thought back to her own teen years….not so restrictive and much younger than the would like to admit. Still, Judith was a woman who had mistakes under her belt and didn’t want to see her daughters fall into that same trap.  Ever since Henry’s death, Judith had become more overprotective, walking them hand in hand everywhere.  But after tonight, Judith’s guard was down.  They were on a boat, the most dangerous thing possible in her mind and nothing was amiss.  They were cold but warmed by passing around hot bricks and hot pans and irons, holding them to their clothes.  
Mary noticed Waylon was dressed with much thicker clothing as the cold night wore on.  The Captain had retired to a cabin above the main deck, filled with maps and navigation devices and a telescope.  After Waylon had played his fife for the last time that night, he waved on the Dutchman who was probably a very talented singer once upon a time if it weren't’ for his raspy voice. Waylon approached Mary who was Waylon’s lone captive audience member.  Most others were content to socialize during his number.  A bit of nervousness broke from usual composure.  “Good evening Miss Perkins”.  “Good evening…” (Mary faked not knowing his name not wanting to appear overly eager. Mom had mentioned what hard-to-get was about) “Waylon”, 
“Good evening Waylon”. 
“Did you enjoy my song?” ...Mary heard the accent come out here and it enlivened her even more, making it even harder to control her desire.
“It was very lovely. But please….”, she paused in teasing., “call me Mary.” and they both grinned wide sharing her little joke. 
“My song I am afraid is not charming at all…”
Mary now took the bait. “oh?”
“compared to you.”
He grinned wider making her blush and this time, they both knew something was happening.  She could sense him and she suddenly felt so lucky to be talking to him, him returning her attention. His commanding exterior ceased intimidating her although it was that which made her burn so badly for him.  
“You look cold.”
She was shivering more from the excitement more than the cold.  As he laid a woolen cloak across their shoulders, she felt an even greater shiver.  She caught his mouth dropping, even drooled a drop.  He turned a little red.  He put a hand over her shoulder.  It was a rougher hand than she imagined.  It was warmer and rougher than the wool...more like his old weathered boots or the ropes that held the sails up. She imagined him wearing those all day and sweating in them.  She sniffed as if she were cold but was taking in his scent...it was warm like bread with pepper and sage and the musk you could only find on a mature and virile man.  She felt shy.  He wasn’t very talkative now.  She wanted him to speak so she could hear that voice but she didn’t want to lose his touch.  She felt her heart squirming as he wrapped his muscled arms around her soft, pale and dainty arms. He held her cheek into his chest and she was overwhelmed...hearing his heartbeat.  The tufts of hair on his chest were soft on her face as if she had put a rabbit fur on her pillow.  She could also tell this was starting to excite him but he just held her close, embracing her and she could hear him sniffing gently.  She wondered if her hair would smell sweet like the lavenders, lilacs and field violets she had put in her hair as a habit.  
He sighed and took a step back.  “I am surprised.”
“Oh?”
“That you would surpass my best dream of what beauty is”
Now he was hooked.  What had she gotten herself into?  She was also amazed that this could be happening to her.  Is this how all love starts out?  She couldn’t speak.  It was too much.  He reflected back everything she was feeling and suddenly she realized that words couldn’t do this feeling justice. ..but she must do something….to show appreciation and yet modesty here.
“I’m just a girl from the country.  I am just a curious girl, is that what you are seeing?”
“No, I saw you first, I watched you from the stern and borrowed the telescope to see who this beautiful lady was..”
She felt oddly forgiving of his confession and flattered that he finally referred to her as a lady.  She couldn’t say how she felt about his looks, she could only speak it by responding with her walk and gesture. He didn’t seem too clueless that she liked him back.  He didn’t ask and she hoped she would never have to admit it.  It’s one of those things only another girl, or rather, lady,  could understand.  It seemed to cheapen it for her to reveal it.  That was her understanding of the role she had to play.  She was starting to learn quick.  She was now curious though about him and she was afraid he might never totally reveal his heart to him.  She needed it. 
“Do tell me good shipmate, how long have you been sailing?  Will we be safe?”
“Oh, since I was fourteen years old, I was sailing.  I met Captain Pierce as an orphan, who stole his food from the docks. He took pity on me. He made me work off my debts for what I stole from him.  He’s a very strict man but a fair man.  He is cruel with those who should know him well enough and continue to disrespect him.  I was flogged every day on my first trip.”
“Oh, you can’t be telling me this!”
“But it was only a couple times every day and very lightly.”  
“He passed a harsh sentence on me but then he tired of his punishing and only did the merest obligation to it to maintain his integrity and conscience.  He told me he hated it but to tell no one else because if they did find out his mercy, it might be used to take advantage of him.  I even yelled loudly in agony so others would see the seriousness of his words.  I was grateful and so I’ve returned a favor to him.”
“I am still sorry he did that to you.”
“Don’t be.  I haven’t suffered for it ever since that first month..”
“Month?!”
“Now I’m playing the wags with you, I meant days.”
“He really is an upright man and the best captain I’ve ever known.”
“Where did you come from?”
“I don’t know, I was told when I was old enough to remember that they saw my parents drop me off there when I was old enough to run.”
“Oh that’s even worse Waylon”
“I only remember that my parents fought with me that day.  They yelled at me, they threatened me.  I can no longer speak their language.  I had to learn English to survive.  I listened to people all day, finding out what I could so I could be like them.  They said things they thought I couldn’t understand.  But I did understand so I knew where they were hiding things.  I knew who would be arriving and how much money they had.  If they had a lot, I might be lucky enough to take something”
Mary started to feel a little anger.  How could she be so in love with a boy who was a thief.  A boy who actually did the things her laid to rest brother had been falsely accused of?  She felt so much confusion in her heart but she tried to fight it. 
“But you learned your lesson after you met Captain Pierce right?”, Mary now only realized that he had taken her to the galley, the scent of cooking pork was rich in here.  They were alone.  
He nodded as if to realize that what he had just said might have ruined his chances with her.  She saw in him a villain but one who had turned around.  She couldn’t help but feel a deep curiosity about this mysterious man with a long tragic history.  He looked irresistible again. How fickle of me she thought to herself.  She noticed how his story made her feel. He successfully stirred up the bad boy lust in her.  Was he lying?  She now didn’t care.  She put her mind to rest and she then saw his eyes staring into hers.  They were honest, gentle, sweet.  She locked again into his, starting to shiver a little.  She couldn’t control it.  He pulled her in some more but not tightly.  She looked at his lips and he looked at hers and they knew something at that moment. 
Before she could think another thought, his lips and hers were pressed together.  She had abandoned her mind and there was nothing but feeling.  At first, just a soft press and then, a light lick and his tongue pressed in between her lips.  Her eyes closed and she felt herself spin with the earth and sky.  The world closed deep on itself and she was embraced in his dark warmth.  His wavy hair covered her cheeks.  Their tongues slid deeply past each other and they shared a deep mouth-watering kiss, full of the wildness of adulthood, the feral side of their human natures.  She let go further.  She thought he might take it further.  Looking back, she was glad she didn’t encourage it.  The lights were blown out and they both noticed the dark.  Mary might be in trouble. He took her by the hand and said, “I’m sorry we have to part here.” and guided her to the ladder.  She went down the ladder, snores were heard.  Judith had an eye open apparently.  She felt a smack on the bottom and she was pushed to the floor and tucked in with a motherly force. 
Mary’s head spun itself into a dizziness that slowly lulled her to sleep. 
***
For days, the cold snap chilled the boat below freezing. Everything was so salty that it didn’t freeze but all the same, was an unbearably bone aching cold.  People massed around the cauldron and galley and each other.  Mary and Waylon were an item much to her parents dismay.  Still, Judith could tell there was no trouble with the unexpected child.  Judith warned him that Mary was young and that a voyage would not be permanent.  They cuddled together and she opened the books and taught herself out of one of the Latin books.  Waylon helped her guess the correct pronunciations of the words.  It was so very easy to pronounce once she got the hang of it but the grammar was more confusing than ever.  After one book, another one came out and it was the very special book with the red cross on it.  She wouldn’t be able to let Waylon help her with this one.  She would read it out of his sight.  She just had the feeling that it wouldn’t be a good idea to share everything here.  After weeks of reading by day and candle-light, Waylon would take longer to come see her after his daily duties on the ship.  Captain Pierce was not happy with this at all fearing to lose his best man.  
***
One night, Waylon decided to pop the question.  Mary stood on the capstan amused that she was now as tall as Waylon. He left her there and looked up to her. 
“I want to be with you after we land Mary Perkins.  I love you….I love you more than life itself.”
“I love you too.”
“I heard the Captain tell your parents to work on you to leave me.”
“They haven’t done so yet.”
“It’s coming Mary.  When we land, we’ll have to run away together.  Will you do that for me?”
“Yes Waylon.”
Captain Pierce had let on that he was working below deck when in reality, he had stayed in his cabin and watched the whole affair secretly.  He had a good hunch what was happening. 
Just hours later, the Captain came up to Mary, “Your parents have volunteered you to work in the galley.  Come with me.”
Captain Pierce showed Mary around.  The oldest crew member was there.  His pants barely held up.  They set her to work mixing dough for the bread and taking the bushels of peas and grains out to make gruel.  Seeing that the older man was already staring Mary up and down, Captain Pierce put the old man in charge of the watch and taking the whipstaff.  Mary began crying.  Judith stopped in and comforted her and helped her.  “He tied our hands Mary, he’s in charge, he doesn’t want his men distracted.”  Mary took these words harder than they sounded.  She wept uncontrollably.  She thought about what she just told Waylon. Run away with him?  I won’t even see him now.  Mary was being taught a long lesson.  It wasn’t an easy lesson. 
*** 
A week passed and Mary and Waylon had figured out a way to meet in secret for a brief moment, sharing a kiss goodnight as they passed each other up and down the ladder.  All eyes were on them.  The Captain didn’t take long to notice this problem for him either and while he was not cruel to Mary, he was strict and unyielding to her painful look.  Captain Pierce considered briefly flogging Waylon but decided against it knowing it might just make Mary long for him even more. Mary grew very resentful of the Captain while still understanding his role as protector of the ship and providing for them.  She grew confused and with that confusion, the storm clouds grew.  The Captain settled on his last plan.  
***
One late afternoon, Captain Pierce invited the Throckmortons to dine with him personally.  He got Rebecca drunk, lavishing her with the best brandy and acting the prim and proper Captain.  He let John escort Rebecca right up to the ladder but made a dire request that the storm was on its way and to go below to grab storm supplies, candles and so on.  His men would then distract him by reason of having those supplies buried.  Captain then called Waylon over to take Rebecca to the galley saying she needed to get out of the storm while drunk and to try splashing water on her face and taking her back to the cabin below.  He whispered to Rebecca that a strong and very capable crew member would help her to her quarters.  Captain Pierce knew Rebecca to be easily lured while under the influence and that she was a very beautiful woman but also “taken”.  He also knew Waylon’s weaknesses.  He had seen him ogle girls enough times to know what he liked. He wouldn’t do any real harm to the Throckmortons but there would be enough trouble to give Mary a shock. The plan worked all too well to the Captain’s great satisfaction. As soon as Waylon and Rebecca were alone, Waylon was holding her up and Rebecca was giggly and the two were having humorously awkward and accidentally intimate moments.  The prim and proper Captain cheerfully woke Mary up from her “well-deserved nap” and took her to work in the galley.  When the Captain opened the door, Rebecca had lifted a knee and thigh bared to all and Waylon’s shirt was torn further. The Captain acted all shocked and bellowed “Waylon, you’re taking too long in here!  Take her back now!”  Mary’s face was in shock, tears, anger, more tears. The Captain grinned every so subtly to himself, pleased with his innocent and clever plan to “prevent the disaster” of losing his matey.  Waylon stood there ghost white in the face, jaw open and speechless and angry and confused with himself.  He blindly took the blame all himself unaware of the ruse. Mary took it extremely hard. So hard in fact that Captain Pierce started to realize the extreme pain he caused a poor fifteen year old girl who he thought all along was going to be too wily for him.  The Captain mentally kicked himself and stayed resigned to being angry with himself the rest of the day, not talking to anyone.  He could still hear Mary, crying and leaning next to the capstan, all the while, dark clouds gathered, thunder pummeled around the heavens for a moment making Captain Pierce confused that his cargo was shifting below deck.  “Go check out that noise Maarten!”  
“Aye aye Captain!, Aye aye!”
“Move!”
More thunder rolled, the Captain realized the mistake he took with the sound and starting to think back through all the mis-steps he had taken that day.  He jinxed himself with that lie about the storm.  Each of Mary’s sobs was echoed by the thunder.  He saw her face change in its countenance.  A teary but angry indignation could be seen in her set jaw and furled brow which framed her heaven-aimed eyes. Fear struck him that he might be in the presence of a heretofore unknown, divine, power in possession of this young lass.  Awestruck and inching back he froze hearing the commotion around him of both skies and occupants of his vessel.  
Now John Throckmorton could be heard shouting below as everyone was feeling the push-pull from the waves from the storm, the titan winds at tug-o-war.  Lightning flashed and boomed in unison as it struck one of the watery peaks just off the starboard.  One at first, then all around.  Waves teetered the ship up and down like a broken schoolyard contraption. Waves started to crash in around the rails of the main deck.  Yells were heard and whistles blew, 
“All passengers below deck, All hands on deck!”  came the echoing voices from the Captain as  he regained composure and took over for Way.
Mary was comforted and taken by Reverend Williams down the ladder as men waited to climb up the ladder. John had not found the storm supplies. The room under the main deck was shook around and gloomy as a closed coffin except the times lightning struck.  Reverend Williams could be heard audibly praying.  John clutched his wife Rebecca in his arms along with their servants and young children.  The Onge family bowed their heads to the ground, Edmond’s hat coming off and bowing in prayers.  Mary was sobbing.  To most, it was a passing thought that this might not be a young lady merely scared of a storm but after so many shocks and near misses with lightning, no one was thinking of much else except survival!  Ladies grabbed desperately for the spare staple rings used to tie excess fur cargo back to the motherland. Judith had been yelling for Mary the whole time.  He voice barely audible above the rocking, creaking, thundering of the cargo below and the thunder in the skies above.  Her voice was hoarse from the commotion. Her father John, himself assuming Mary had still been napping was panic stricken when Mary wasn’t found in her bed.  
The Captain soon exhausted himself, resigning himself to ride it out.  Several times, his crew had tried to take down a sail and fell back down on the main deck, Waylon among them.  In all his years as Captain, nothing like this was ever seen before.  In the lightning, he thought he could see images of the people who had haunted his conscience.   A light flashed.  Mary was there, standing on the capstan with eyes widely furious, another flash, Rebecca was there dazed and stumbling.  Another.  His wife stood there and she was pointing at him.  His guilt became as deep as the waters around him.  In his lost frame of mind, a wave of water washed over him, waking him up.  He grew dazed but determined again to keep his ship afloat.  His hands were numb holding the whipstaff, he spun frantically, avoiding the troughs in the sea, using all the wits he could manage to drive his giant whale through the treacherous waves.  He was gliding through it.  He felt his faith tested and he was still alive. Still alive.  His life would sometimes flash past him again, only to nearly slip and lose his footing on the deck. At one point, he let go of the wheel.  “Guide me!  I’m sorry!  Deliver us Lord!”
The ship bounced it’s way from peak to peak and after a moment, it was just rain, no lightning and no thunder. Just waves and rain.  The waves seemed to tire a little. The passengers noticed this too.  After a while, the boat just took on a steady rock. It was windy, rainy and the boat rocked for day after day.  People stayed below all night, feeling around for food, huddling together and by day, take dares going above deck.  
***
For weeks it rained.  A good number had caught colds.  Mary took to making a remedy for them.  With her skills, she was able to bring all of them down from their fevers, chills, and aches. Judith and John were glowing with pride at her successes.  Elizabeth made warm wools for them to wear and stay warm in. Everyone started pulling together and helping each other out.  Captain Pierce also had become a very soft man to everyone and everyone was using first names including Roger the Reverend.  The Reverend called everyone together for prayer. Mary was still feeling like her heart was broken. Waylon tried to look over to her and smile.  To no avail, Mary’s heart was lost.  
The rains came back and Waylon climbed the masts again to take the sails down.. Just as he was taking down the last sail, a glint of black poked out of the water out in the distance.  His hopes grew, he waited for more of it to show. It grew bigger..and bigger.  Sure enough, Land!
“Land! Land Ahoy! Land Ahoy!”
The passengers were climbing up the ladders as fast as they could putting on their raincoats and wet wear and going onto the main deck to see.  Mary’s heart shivered in trepidation at the dreadful prospects of having to decide her path once she landed. They all beamed at the sight of it, a beautiful mass, each of them pointing it out to each other.  They’d lose sight of it from time to time as the rains blew in and the clouds rolled in and the ship started to bounce again.  Nonetheless, they stared intently towards the mass as it got bigger and bigger.  Despite their joys, some of them stepped back down the ladder.  Mary had it in her heart that she might try to make amends with Waylon and started thinking about him again.  His manly show of nimbleness and power enduring the harsh rains moved her and stirred passion back within her.  He climbed the spritsail yard with daring.  The thunder started rolling and crashing in again.  Distant rumbles echoed overhead.  The ship was tossing over again, causing Rebecca to get sea sick and vomit over the port. Edmond was trying to help with the ropes.  Roger was doing his best to catch the lines falling down and coiling up the slack ends.  Just as they were able to see the land a dozen or so miles away, the details clear enough to see even through the dark veil of rains, 
Aaaaaaaaaaaahhhhhhhhhh!
The Dutchman yelled first “Man Overboard Man Overboard!!” yelling so loudly that he coughed heavily after, his chest still recovering from cold.  “Waylon!” screamed Mary.  A distant “Help!” could be heard between waves crashing over his head. 
Everyone repeated the call “Man Overboard!”
Seconds later, Captain Pierce was leaping into action, grabbing ropes, grabbing anything he could find and tossing it over for him to catch.  Anything loose that could float was tied to any ropes that were loose.  He grabbed the whipstaff and tried to slow the ship so he wouldn’t fall behind.  This couldn’t be a worse time.  He needed the time to prepare to drop anchor a few miles away from shore so they wouldn’t end up dashing the ship into pieces onto the rocky shore and rocks in the bay, sinking the entire thing.  That would be less than half an hour away. For fifteen whole minutes, Captain Pierce, the crew, everyone was watching helplessly as Waylon struggled.  Mary continued to bawl until hoarse. Captain Pierce tried to bring one other sail down. The waves eventually became too much, he had already exhausted himself and the boat was going too fast and they soon lost sight of him through the veils of the rain.  Way’s head bobbed one last time and never emerged again.
Swearing could be heard from stern to bow, poop deck to holding deck and starboard to port.  Mary had never seen Captain Pierce “cry”.  He was red-eyed, red faced, tears rolling, not bawling but grumbling and sobbing incoherently about “his son”, “my son”, “lost my Way”.  Mary was sobbing uncontrollably, holding her aching head, pulling down her hat over her face, her collar up to her nose, her face in her hands.  She fell to the ground over a pile of un-coiled ropes, her face buried and sobs heard under the roars of thunder and the hiss of rains. The boat was nearing shore and Captain Pierce leaped into action again showing some unusual strength for someone she had only seen give orders and do light work.  He climbed the masts, lowered the largest sail, the anchor dropped and the ship dragged for a but until the anchor caught.  
The ship bobbed around in place in the rains and waves by shore the rest of that afternoon.   The waves eventually calmed and they set sail gently along the coast, anchor readied to drop again.  The rains however continued.  
They eventually saw the familiar outline of land that was the long shore island of Nantasket. The Captain himself holding the glass to his eye and sending signals.  Everyone would be rowed ashore and the ship would be guided in by the Captain and his crew to unload the cargo.   As Mary stepped out of the shoreboat with her family and Mr. Parke, a couple of smiling and plainly dressed men greeted them. This was not however the final stop.  Soon, she’d have to repeat this ritual again in Boston. 
***
