Mary walked off the gangplank and onto the dock.  Loud cheers were heard but Mary’s heart was heavy. 
Every so often, she let out a deep sigh.  She thought sleep might push the pain away.  Everything had a way of reminding her of Waylon and she fought with herself inside.  She lost the desire to live and eat.  Did she over-react?  The pain was too much and needed the distance but she still couldn’t help but wish she hadn’t.  She never got to say a single word to him and he was too embarrassed to  try and explain.  Inside she felt turmoil as wide and deep as the storm.  It almost felt like I did that.  He never got to hear him explain or tell him how she was feeling.  It was unfair.  She realized something was up with the whole scene the way she remembered it.  It just didn’t seem like him.  She wanted to forgive him for that reason...Deep down, she knew something fishy was going on and she was duped.  It didn’t seem like that had been going on behind or back or anything.  Even though she was occupied in the galley, she had peeked out periodically and seen him about his business.  There was also her feeling about the Captain.  Something just wasn’t right.  She somehow knew playing against him she would find herself beaten at anything she tried.  She started to feel a little determination.   Still, the world was painful. Everything, every fife, whistle, seemed to haunt her.  Before she left the ship, she snuck out to see his room, his hammock, his chest. It was much smaller than the big one she had tied down at night and whenever the boat had rocked. Still, seeing that put her in a spin.  He would never enter that room again, wear that hat again, play his fife again. Tears streamed down her face while a drum and band played. People left her alone, seeing she couldn’t be helped.  The cold ceased to distract her despite winds picking up speed the cold February day.
“Captain!”, shouted a long faced dark haired man with a neckcloth and regal clothing. 
“Governor Winthrop, I was was just looking for you!”, spoke Captain Pierce in an unusually formal tone.  Judith was a little bewildered at the intensity of the excitement but took it as perhaps the common expression of new arrivals.”
“I’m giving you two companies of men to help unload the Lyon.”
Captain Pierce’s face lighted a little.
John Winthrop continued, “It seems our Deliverance was on the Lord’s own good time.”
Captain Pierce raised an eyebrow to beckon him continue…he’d share the one loss he endured later.
“We’ve had an unusually rough winter this year.  We have suffered lack of food for weeks.  We had rationed down to a mere handful a day to each person of the last of the coarsest meal.  I was just handing out the last bit from shaking the bottom of the barrel when I saw a faint dark spec in the fog and then looked up with my glass and spied the Lyon.  I thought my eyes were deceived by the illusions of hunger”
“In truth Sire. We were spared a great storm and though my faith was shaken and sorely tested, all but one of us survived this voyage.  My first mate, Way was swallowed by the seas while bravely toiling with the spritsail yard. “
“I am sorely grieved for you.  I lost my son Henry to the waters of Salem just last year.”
Reverend Williams walked over and raised a brow at this conversation.  Seeing his arrival, the governor made a welcoming gesture to the Reverend. 
“Greetings in the name of our Lord, Reverend Father!” proclaimed Winthrop in a very proper but less cheerful manner. “Peace be unto you.”
“And unto you, your Lordship”
“I now would like to humbly ask your presence and a blessing at a feast which I will soon declare.  I will be introducing you to the Indians here by their tribes.  We must be giving our thanks for those blessings which in truth we do have which the Lord has seen in his grace to bless us with.”
“For that, I would like to report that we have a heavy leaden ship with extra provisions due to our swift arrival and our lack of passengers who would not brave the journey this season.  All in all, we were truly blessed by compare to some of the most leisurely sailings.  It truly is miraculous.  I would welcome it.”, replied Captain Pierce, more eloquent than ever heard before.
“I accept your kind invitation, Governor.”
Mary admired Winthrop’s courtly manner and dress with his sharp neckcloth reminding her of the Viscount to a degree.  She started feeling the piercing cold in her bones.  It was marshy and foggy out.  She gave a visible shudder.  Winthrop noticed this and looked kindly upon her with the look of concern and spoke up. “Mr. Perkins, your children are cold. Please come by and warm yourselves at my fireplace if it be good with them.”
“We are much obliged.”
They marched through snow and slush.  
She flipped back to a page she had previously read that made her think of when it might get warm again:
If Candlemas be fair and bright,
Come, Winter, have another flight;
If Candlemas brings clouds and rain,
Go Winter, and come not again.
This was a good sign, even if for now it meant great discomfort.  The fire at John Winthrop’s home was warm, albeit his house smelled of wet leggings. 
The next day, Mary and Elizabeth volunteered to do some of the housework.  It was cold but the land was brightly lit by the sun and it appeared heavily wooded, dark greens, whites and browns speared the white sky with the pine’s evergreen boughs.  She could hear winds whistling through the canyons.  This new world was a wild and barely inhabited place full of varieties of new trees and bushes, sages and grasses instead of hedges and briars and tall vine laden oaks.   The rivers and lakes and rolling hills encompassed them, the sea off in the distance.  
After the fires started to roar under the pots and kettles, people started to arrive bringing all kinds of barrels and crates.  She would be helping to prepare the feast that night but was guaranteed a release from duty so as to dress up and attend it.  At home, Elizabeth and Mary took out her hat, bodice, skirts and sleeves and all her accessories.  Judith, John Senior and Junior noticed Elizabeth had saved her best finery for this occasion.  Mary also had a new hat and neckcloth.  They were princesses set against the new world’ wild setting.  Her younger brothers were dressed like little Lords with their waistcoats, stockings and oiled shoes.  Judith had already starting unpacking some of their clothes now that they were no longer roughing it on the long voyage.  Elizabeth stared off to sea in a homesick daze.  
As they sat at the table, there were the most unusually dressed newcomers there.  Indians with all kinds of apparel on.  They had ornate jewelry, feathers, wood, skins and all manner of natural fittings on.  They carried skins as coats with them and were browned in complexion like the field labourers at home.  Set on the table were large fowl, corn and by the table a barrel of strong waters.  John announced that he would be restricting the strong waters except in toasting saying that he did not want our young people to set a poor example to his guests.  He introduced everyone at the table and soon everyone was eating.  There were many new faces and townsfolk at the table.  The people divided somewhat into age groups and genders so as to mingle.  Mary and Elizabeth sat together at a table with an Indian girl and another girl who introduced herself as Margaret Jones. Fowl, acorns, salted pork, fresh mutton, clams, beans, lemon juice, extra salt and biscuits sat about the table along with some root vegetables that Mary had never seen before.  Everyone looked gaunt and were tearing into the food without a thought for the formality of dinner wares. The Indians looked at the forks and while some ate with them with most properness, a few others were spearing the food and laughing like it might get away.  
The Perkins were soon settled temporarily in Boston.  In spring, the rains and wet snows poured heavily over the lands receding their snowlines into the woods leaving pastures and roads green and earthed.  Many chores were the same, especially for Elizabeth who learned to spin and weave the new fibres available in the new world like flax and cotton.  Mary’s chores varied more in that she spent much more time gathering materials: wood, oysters, berries, flowers, fibers and anything they could use to build up their home.  John Sr wanted someone to stake out the land he was granted along the Ipswich River at Jeffrey’s Neck so he sent John Jr. to go up there to stake out the land and guard it and build a simple home there while hunting for meat and skins in preparation for the winter. John Jr loved the idea.  
Mary was out in the fields one day, gathering wild berries based on what her mom Judith had shown her and what her father had discovered from the local Sachem, that is, an Indian chief or the Salvages as some were wont to call them.  Mary came across a field of wildflowers and started picking yarrow, sap, and medicinal flowers among the more brutal parts of the landscape. She soon noticed another in the distance, doing the same thing. 
“Mary!  Mary!”, Margaret yelled from twenty paces.  
“Hallo miss, oh, Margaret, is that you?”, Mary was deep in thought over Waylon still.  Her mind ached replaying the scene of him helpless in the water and herself reflected unable to help.   Margaret gave a curious glance over to them. 
“We met after you landed at the feast, remember?”
“Yes, I remember.  You are Margaret Jones.”
“Mary Perkins right?”
“As ever.”
“Spring brings out some of the most wonderful specimens, do you happy to know where I can find shepherd's purse?”
“Shepherd’s purse, we’re standing in it!” answered Mary. 
“Oh, well, I have to prepare a remedie of shepherd’s purse and yarrow in preparation against the hemorrhage.  I’m going to help my mother with the delivery of a baby in the village.”
“They both like this dry patch.  The yarrow has a scent and gives a numb to the mouth.  I’m getting some too.”
“You sure know your herbs Mary.  I’ve had more work with tending to babies and moms.  I used to never leave the house.  I hope I can be a midwife someday but I would have to learn physician’s arts if I’m going to be good at it. ”
“Margaret, I’m afraid I know more about cows than babies.  My grandfather used to teach me about herbs.  He showed me everything that grew in his yard back in England.  I do miss it sometimes.”  
“I don’t.  Most people who long for the homeland don’t make it.  My uncle and my brother both died of scurvy this year.  You know the cure for the scurvy don’t you?”
“Lemons, and yes, we had some on board the ship.  My skin would crack and eyes glaze and mouth dry would irritate me to no end.  The lemon is sour but it is a Godsend.”, spouted Mary as if teaching at a dameschool. 
“I learned most of my herbs from Thomas Morton.  You heard about him right?”
“No, I haven’t.”
“Most of what I learned I heard from Thomas Morton.  He was a peculiar man from the Old English country.”
“Cornwall?”
“Close, Devon.  You’re probably saw some of them in Bristol. Their ways are very superstitious. So not long after Thomas Morton planted himself here, he organized a rebellion against Captain Wollaston, exiling him for conducting slave trades using his friends, for the tobacco plantations in Virginia.  Morton endeared himself with the peoples and wrote down his studies of this new land and created a new colony of free peoples for savages and men from the motherlands alike, and he revived the old faiths and held revelries around a maypole eighty feet high which he made for them and called it Merrymount.  But I think people hate him for other reasons.”
“Sounds like a merry place. What herbs here did he mention?” said Mary inquisitively, seeing how this could prompt her new friend to give her even more useful information, stories and so on. 
“Tom told me there were a lot of good potherbs for cooked green and that they were more masculine varieties than those in England seeing as they are hardy and strongly formed.  He showed me where to find pot-marjoram, good for melancholies and the like. Thymes that grow with needles and many scents, sizes and shapes of their tiny leaves.  Anise which is most useful for many complaints of the stomach, the eyes, the nose, coughing...oh but never use with a mother carrying only when she’s giving her milk or for the gas pains when made into a light tea….which I’m sure you know.  There are so many herbs here, just like England but these can grow without tending and on the hardest rocks.  So many flowers here for the cleansing of the air like violets, lavenders and honeysuckles.  We don’t have the wort of St. John that I can tell but it grows easily here and you can find it in Endicott’s gardens.  Of course there’s the tobacco, a most miraculous plant great for the bruises but also the relaxation of the mind and soul. ”
“Why do they hate him so much?”
”A lot of people don’t like the fact he sells guns to Indians but so do a lot of people... secretly. It’s even in our law. He’s just very obvious about it and makes people worry since he’s not on their side.  He’s had a falling out with the governor and court magistrates here.  The Indians have mostly used the guns to defend themselves against other tribes that are more bloodthirsty or seeking to rob them.”
“I don’t think it helps us to get involved either but if we have something...they’ll want us to share it just as they shared everything with us.” retorted Mary sounding a bit wise to herself but simple to Margaret.
“There’s a lot of evil being said about him but I think he is a good man.  He has made a safe home for those whom the very pious amongst us would persecute.  They say he consorts with those who can work wonders which can only be done by the devil and with witchcraft and so has fallen into becoming a witch himself. People who knew him in England say he was a good friend of Francis Bacon and a lover of both science, art and wisdom but being particularly good with law.” 
Mary’s thought to herself Why did that name sound so familiar?  She heard it several times before and felt a burning of curiosity like she should have already known more about who this was. She gave Margaret pause with her arched brow and took cue to ask: “So when can we find him to meet him?”
“He was shipped back to England only last year.  Only a few years after Tom had set up his garden paradise, he was raided and arrested several times, this last time by John Endecott who also cut down his maypole and took every bit of food they had and sent it home.  Tom tried to return there to set it up again but they lay wait for him and arrested him and sent him back to England.  It was then they were calling his place Mount Dagon and burned it down.   You’ll never guess what I found…..”
Mary gave a big-eyed look and held up a finger. 
*BOOM!*
In the distance, cannons went off.  A celebration was taking place on the ship.  They were heavy with weight given they were laden with cannonballs to fight off any dunkirkers.  A volley sounded every few seconds.  With some of the ships coming up on land, the balls were more a burden than a protection or stabilizing weight. 
Margaret seemed utterly confused..”How did you know…” 
Mary shrugged it off but Margaret was wondering how it might be possible that Mary would know something was going to happen like that. 
“Meet me back here tomorrow?” said Margaret.  She took Mary by both hands and smiled gleefully.  Mary felt shy but happy to have someone storytell to her while she relaxed out in the warm afternoon light.  They both parted the field with bushels of flowers but also headfuls of wonder that evening.  
The next day, Judith was worried that Mary might wander too far and get abducted by raiding tribes.  She knew some of the local tribes were friendly but even they warned them of the other tribes who were less friendly to the settlers.  John Endicott, the previous governor had provoked a few of them before John Winthrop arrived.  Mary explained she would meet Margaret Jones and Judith was very pleased to hear of her.  She accompanied her to meet Margaret herself and so Mary introduced them.  
“Mary, I think I know something about you.”
“Well you probably should know then that I am a princess.”
“A princess!?”
“Mom, tell Margaret I’m a princess!”
“I don’t know what you’re talking about”, glared Judith ever so subtly at Mary but spoken in a nonchalant tone.  Mary backed down. Margaret looked confused.  Judith cleared the air: “Oh, Mary must be talking about the imaginative games she plays while doing her chores. Helps get them done faster I’m sure.  How about you join us for dinner tomorrow?”  
This cut their meeting short after Margaret left, but that night Mary had a talking to, “Mary, any time something marvelous happens, people will, without a second thought, attribute it to God until it disagrees with them, it is then that they immediately ascribe it to the Devil as trickery, even when it does no harm.  Watch out that whatever you do is not seen as too fantastic my daughter, people may love you at first but how quickly they can turn from that kind of love.”, said Judith in her wizened tones.  “You must always remember that the admiration and attention of others is a very fleeting and ill compensation for the wisdom that comes with holding your tongue and given people ideas they claim as their own but accomplish your designs.  Like the sickness of honey, it seems joyful but only for an instant. ”
Mary wasn’t so sure Judith had ascertained Margaret’s disposition so accurately towards the matter.  “Mother, she is very sympathetic to gifts of spirit.”
“In that case, just to be safe, you must always attribute any perceived miracle that is good to the grace of God, these people will not slight you for it.  If something evil come of it, instead blame it on your shortcomings and pridefulness and lack of diligence but do not mention God or blame it on nature and certainly never suggest witchcraft or others will follow that line of folly to a very misunderstood position and end. I want you to read this book I brought with me, The Discoverie of Witchcraft by Reginald Scot”
“Basically it’s cover for those who are cunning.  People often cannot tell what they have witnessed without someone or something to make sense of it to them.  You must be ever watchful to play off your gifts with modesty and humility and if possibly, without notice. “
“I think Margaret has already noticed.“
“Well then, I will have to inquire of Margaret for myself as to what truly lies in her heart and her trustworthiness for our craft.  Perhaps, we can initiate her to be with us.  Can she be hired to help us perhaps?”
“She’s already very busy working to be a midwife.”
“I can offer her better than what she has now.  Let’s talk to her tomorrow”
Mary and Judith left Elizabeth with her spinning and Elizabeth was soon off on a date with a fine suave yet somewhat older gentleman, William Sargent, who rode his coach by there.   It had almost seemed since arriving that Elizabeth’s fortunes for a future husband had changed.  Judith would not stand in the way.  Judith did however take the boys with her. 
Margaret greeted her: “Good wife Perkins, if I may speak so boldly, I know Mary is a very talented girl.”, spoke Margaret.  “She has gifts of seership it would seem.  I know this might alarm you that I know this but do not be afraid that I would speak ill of any of you.”
Judith took Margaret aside and it seem she gave her some tests using two wooden sticks and a crude box.  Something Mary had never seen before.  Every test was different, no girl could possibly cheat.  Judith thought of starting up the Dameschool for which John Perkins Sr. had been very keen to.  She could get students and help and she merely had to pay for some food and space. 
They went home to dinner discussing everything Judith was planning for a school...a Dame School but one where they could share the arts with each other as well as study the old great works, Latin and so on so midwifery and the arts of physick would be understood for their craft. 
Mary and Margaret were allowed to go out together on foraging walks together.  Margaret had successfully performed the services of a midwife and Mary was excited to find out about it but instead of being able to listen to Margaret, Margaret asked Mary a few questions this time. 
“Mary, do you know Reverend Williams?”
“Yes Margaret, I do.”
“What do you think of him?”
“He’s a kind but very serious man and betimes quick to taking offenses.  He’s very wise and intelligent.  He can already speak the tongue of the Narragansett like one of their own and has become well respected by them.  He’s not very fond of the English church and would be first to separate us completely from them.  He’s just and fair minded and it seems he’s a better diplomat to the natives than his own people much like Thomas but much less exciting other than when he’s on one of his contemptuous moments. “
“Margaret, tell me more about Tom.  Why did the people hate him so?”
 “Some people say Tom was in conspiracy with Sir Gorges to claim the land.  Others say he was laying with their women in wicked frivolities.  The tales people spread...I don’t believe them until I see them.  So many wonders here have people in a daze at times.  Their vigilance at the wildness of this place causes them to worry and see things that aren't’ there. I don’t care if it’s true or not.  He wasn’t my suitor or anything. ”
“Margaret, teach me how you would deliver a baby?”
“The first thing you must mind is that you do not pull too hard on the baby.  You must tell the mother to push.  You can only pull gently to move out of the way when something is stuck.”
“Ok, so is that all?”
“No, there’s much more to it.  More that you should not do than what you should do.  You must have clean hands and smile at all times. You must watch out for too much blood.  You should not baptise the babe yourself.  The babe may be chilled.  You must give word to the deacon and write it in their book. You cannot bear a false claim of fatherhood to them.  You cannot perform sorcery or use means against people because they wish ill or are known not to pay because they are poor.  But do not forget that you have a witness who can attest to your labors for her and take your dues that way if they are found to have coins but do not pay.  Really, you should not let any man touch the baby...”
“Why is that?”
“Bad luck. A baby starts life with the feminine qualities and must remain in a feminine environment until it grows and becomes aware of its being of mankind or of womankind.”
Margaret had found a new cat who followed her around.  It was male cat and Margaret would not give the cat’s name saying he was her familiar.  Mary wondered what that meant.  Margaret and Mary were finished milking one day and took to shade.  As they slept, Mary woke up to a suckling noice.   She looked over and there was Margaret’s cat nursing on her dry nipple!  That’s really odd! thought Mary.  Margaret seemed like such a weird one sometimes. Luckily, the men had left the homestead to do other things and such a scene would not be accidentally find its way into their view!
Elizabeth suddenly walked in on the two of them sleeping.  Elizabeth didn’t even seem to notice but called to them “Finish your chores!”.  After they had finished their chores, they went to eat their lunch, Judith announced she would teach them some letters and a special lesson.  
Inside the home, Judith had read some books together with them. Going over the stories from the classics. After, Judith got up and announced that she’d teach them a spell.  This spell, she warned, would potentially cause harm but which would, if done in a moment of stress, work instantly and effectively.  She instructed them with these words: "Jam Mitius Ardet"
“When you see the redness of heat in your mind’s eye over the thing you wish to feel it...it will start to heat.  Imagine the sun above and the constellation of Virgo and then repeat it again switching focus back to the thing you wish to heat.  If you are ready for fire, say this: Non Extinguetur”
“Do not practice it now...I don’t want anything to burn here.”
Mary and Margaret went out to the sun to pick flowers as it approached midsummer.  They walked past a small haystack and Mary and Margaret looked at each other as if sharing the same idea.  They would put it to the test. Margaret tried first incanting three times and switching her mind back and forth as she was taught during the incantation. She said the second phrase feeling confident it would work but stumbled on her words, fearful.  Mary interrupted her.  “Margaret, let’s do this together, it will be more effective this way.”
“Mary, I was already feeling it.  I didn’t say the second part yet!”
“Oh, I’m sorry Margaret.”
“It’s ok Mary, but you do have a point here. Let’s start again together.”
In unison, they spoke the incantations and just as the second phrase of “Non-exting” was being uttered, the flames took the haystack and there it burned nearly in an instant.  Panicking they stopped   They had to now run and tell someone.  Dare they tell Mother / Good wife Perkins?  They yelled out and Judith saw and smelled almost as quickly as they could start their utterance.  She looked at them as if to start to yell at them but instead pushed both hands to the sky, uttered something so quickly they could not comprehend it.  It was a rattle of speech so fast as to almost sound like a woodpecker’s knock and suddenly, lightning came down and thunder, and rain came down dousing the flames. 
Judith looked exasperated and wide eyed.  “That was excellent but can you practice on something a bit smaller like a candle next time?”  Catching her breathe she seemed almost angry on inhale and smiling on exhale.  She was unreadable and fiery looking herself.  “Oh, and one more thing, you will of all certainty replace this haystack which was going to rot anyway.” and with that she smirked in satisfaction yet much to the chagrin of Margaret and Mary. 
After Judith had let into them.  Mary reflected a bit.  She seemed kind yet stern enough about it but something in her voice was even more serious, scared even.  There was something dangerous beyond the fire and Mary couldn’t put her finger on it.  Mary thought to talk to Margaret about it. 
“I can understand Mother being so distraught but something’s bothering me about that expression of fear...it wasn’t the fire, that was under control...it was amazing what just happened there but she looked like that part was nothing at all!”
“Mary, I think I know what is bothering her.  She’s worried for our safety...not from the fire.  From people.”
Mary was so glad Margaret could see these blind spots.  She was starting to catch on but urged her to speak further. 
“One thing you may not know, is that where we come from, this kind of thing is very bad. It’s against the law.  They say it’s against God.  To them, to have this much power must be from the Devil and they call it witchcraft.  Judith probably shouldn’t have done that.  She did it to save our homes. to save us.  She took a great risk. She made a call and did what she felt she had to do.  If someone saw that, they would surely talk.”
“So what if people talk Margaret?”
“You might not have read about it.  I’m surprised you haven’t heard more about it.  Maybe Judith has sheltered you from such fears out of concern for your advancement and self-protection.  We walk a thin post here.  If you don’t already know, I don’t know if I’m supposed to tell you this.  ”
Mary was intensely curious and bade her to continue on. 
“Not long ago, people had to practice a lot of arts to survive but also risked death if they did not practice and they might face death if they did.”
Mary could hear the trepidations in her vagueness, “Get to the point!”
“Mary, if you are caught practicing witchcraft and they think you are doing evil, if you speak anything of the devil, if they so much as dislike you and have any of the even slightest suspicion that you are using witchcraft, they will either burn you, torture you or hang you or do anything to kill you and to them, this would not be wrong. It represents the greatest evil in this world.  The very Satan they fear against God.  It is not always talked about in church but I remember my grandmother telling me how her best friend was burned alive for threatening their livestock with disease and wishing them evil.  They said she had the evil eye.  They took her to a post in the ground, tied her to it, laid firewood at her feet and light the fire, roasting her alive.  Fire is the most painful death you can imagine and with her, the went slowly, using hot irons from another fire at first.  When she gasped quiet from screaming too loudly at the pain, they lit the fire sending her whole body up in flame.  For a few moments more she was able to force out a huge amount of cursing and screams that would echo across the city with the hoarseness in her voice increasing with the loudness.  The pain in her face was too much for some of them to watch.  Some fainted before she fell unconscious.  Others cheered with Glory to Our God Who Is Just! Glory to him who punishes witches and soothsayers and whores and murderers!  Some would laugh and watch as the flesh fell and singed off her frame watching her body become some hideous mass.  The blackness of the scorched skull and remaining flesh to them was the image of the demon they wanted to destroy and so they congratulated themselves sometimes for killing a woman who gave children apples and pies but was laughed at and mocked because of how toil and kindness and age wore on her face.  With tears in her eyes, she uttered the Lord’s Prayer and the final Peace: ‘Forgive them Father for they know not what they do.  Of course, the pious do not want to be nagged by the guilt of such words and dismiss it as easily as a dog’s bark at the moon.  Girls like us are at risk.  Your mother is at a great risk.  She showed great love for you today. She risked her life to help you. We have to stick together and stay loyal to each other and firm in our doing the right thing but also to do it in secrecy.  It is tempting to return evil for evil but that often leads down the road of quickly being caught.  It is best to be modest and conservative with the use of our magic except for the times we absolutely must use it dear sister.
Tears were streaming down Margaret’s face.  The shock, horror, sadness made Mary’s eyes well up with hers.  With a downtrodden feeling of helpless, they gazed at each other a moment.  Margaret continued on but slowly this time. “Mary, promise me you won’t tempt me to do this kind of thing again.  Let us learn how but not use...Use only enough so we can be sure for when the time comes.  Let us instruct our fellow man and womankind to not be so cruel, to be reasonable with each other.  We can’t forget our art once we have learned it.  We simply have to remember wisdom, silence and loyalty. Pray to all the gods and goddesses, their parents, their ancestors down to the Ancestor of all Gods, the Eternal God and Eternal Goddess who are the Eternal One for help.  I would tell you more but I would not want to give you contrary to what your mother told you.  My mother gave me the same instruction before she died.  You and your mother and sisters I would suppose are the only others I know who are Matrons of Life and Death, and Mistresses of the Great Work other than the one or two I told you earlier. Those wise men who are here to carry the words of the art when it cannot be handed to a woman. However, they lack what we can do just as we lack some of what they can do. One is not better than the other. I hope you understand now. I’ve said what I had to.”
“Yes Margaret, I understand everything you’ve said and more.  Let’s go play!”
The next day, Judith’s lesson changed a bit. “While power is limited only by the imagination, there are several wonders that are considered dangerous follies.  First, coercing love.  Love cannot be constructed only nurtured when it’s already there.  Coercing love goes against the foundation of Love which can only grow from one’s Will which depends on their level of consciousness.  Next, prophesying death.  Those who know the times of their death die on the spot because they will cease to live any more and do all in their power to hedge up against the inevitable day. ”  
***
John Jr was sitting up dressed in the lightest garments he owned in the hut he had built all by himself on “Perkins Island” one morning.  The nights were short and sultry and he had awoken early in a sweat by the first dawn light.  He thought to himself how indecent he might look were he to be back home wearing so few clothes.  An Indian man of the Agawam stirred his hut outside.  “Master John!” came a yell.  Startled, John Jr peeked out and saw a friendly and familiar looking Indian man looking very nervous looking over his shoulder.  He went to the entrance. 
“Robin Good Fellow! Come in.” 
He entered and was given a seat and offered some pork to eat by John’s gesture of handing it to him.
“John, There is danger to tell you.  Thursday morning they will come.”
“Who Robin?”
“Thursday, four savage invite you go down hill to water. Morning savage come here. They ask take you to good fishing and trade you good bargain.  John not go. Not go!”
“Why Robin?”
“You and your many man go, they kill you. Kill your many man. They Tarratine tribe.  Days before, many many savage attack Sagamore Masconomet camp. Thursday they hide hill.  They have forty birch canoe. Many man. They know your many man go. They know your man not home. They say easy kill your man. Your many not many many like them”
John sat there listening to him asking him to say it again so he knew what Robin was saying and what the attack would be.  
“Robin, come with me. We go see my big sagamore. Sagamore sagamore. I owe you”
John lead Robin off the island and onto a trail.  He was very glad that Governor Winthrop was close by.  Governor Winthrop had spent much of his days directing and working himself to build the village of Ipswich.  
“Governor, I must speak with you now!”
John felt the fear in Robin’s voice but he knew he would have to act bravely and judiciously to fend off this attempt at destroying the tiny village along with his only home.  
“What is it John Perkins?”
“The Tarratine tribe to the north is going to try and raid our village by deceit.  This is Indian Robin.”
Robin stood there silent for a moment, John prompted him to greet. After a warm greeting by Governor Winthrop, he motioned that they sit down to talk.  John relayed the Tarratine plan to lure them into a trap by having unarmed Indians offer them trade at the waterfront which would be  surrounded by warriors laying in wait inside birch canoes docked out of view by the shore.
They came up with a plan.  Governor Winthrop took off for Salem to rally the men there to aid the fledgling colony at Ipswich.
Thursday morning, sure enough, the Indians came to offer trade saying they had many goods on the shore and wished to trade for very meager amounts of corn.   John Jr. outwitted them feigning his interest and asking them about the quantities they had with a slight air of greed, widening his eyes at their words and acknowledging their offers with a subtle grin which bait they took and eagerly responded to going on with even more straight faced tempting offers and expressing an air of confidence in their plotting. Deep in John’s mind, he knew it worked to his advantage.  He could see the spot they were taking him to that it was where he suspected it.  The governor’s men were already there.  John broadened his step walking them close enough to his own ambush which they were satisfied enough to travel along side him wherewith. Everything Robin said had been true to the letter in John’s mind and just as he suspected.  He walked a little towards the brow of the hill where he knew they’d be hiding and the trading Indians told him the supplies were not that way, thus detecting right where they had laid the trap.  John then took them towards his own ambush again which they were pleased with thinking he was being easily compliant.  Governor Winthrop had instructed John to bring them close but backs to him.  John stopped the Indians paces short of the bottom of the hill and snarled: “If you don’t leave now, we will shoot you.”
Realizing their plot had been discovered, they snarled back at him and mumbled angrily with each other in their own tongue. John knew they might try anyway since they still thought the Englishmen outnumbered and so bring back their warriors thinking perhaps he was bluffing in desperation. Just as they had turned their backs, the governor’s men fired muskets from the marshes and beat a drum to imply a combined force of Englishmen and Agawam also in hiding there.  Now thinking this was no bluff but a counter-ambush, they now ran top speed in utter fright at being surrounded themselves. After they had disappeared around the hill, John saw forty birch canoes jump out from behind that hill and shove off out to sea making away as fast as they their paddles could paddle them. The entire troop of warriors had been successfully outwitted by a new hero in Ipswich, John Perkins Jr.   
The next day, a meeting was called. Reverend Cobbet had heard the whole chain of events and John discovered that Governor Winthrop had been successful in rallying support and godly compassion for the fledgling colony in peril at Ipswich. People lifted their voices in praise up to heaven for their deliverance of Salem and Ipswich that day.  
Governor Winthrop announced: “For bravery, sharp wit and diligent service to the people of Ipswich and Salem, I hereby commission John Perkins Jr, Quartermaster of the company guard in Ipswich on this very day. …”
John Perkins Jr was overwhelmed with honor bestowed to him and his family by extension but remembered to defer praise in modesty to the Lord and count himself naught but performing according to the necessities at hand by the grace of God.  
“Furthermore, I hereby appoint him and give him charge over the first public house in Ipswich for his keen understanding and skill at trade and careful book-keeping.”  
John Perkins Jr. would retain that title of Quartermaster from that day forward unto his last.  On most of the public documents seen in Ipswich at that time, one can read in his own pen styled as “I, John Perkins Quartermaster and ordinary keeper.”.  Even as ordinary as he made himself appear, he was always counted as one of the leading men of their village.   The news soon made itself back to Boston where the whole family thanked the heavens, Father and Mother for their son's deliverance and made offerings and wrote their remembrance adding it to their Book of Memories to their ancestors in the motherland. 
October leaves were turning bright orange as Judith sat in her chair beholding their first scene of New World fall.  Elizabeth was cleaning bundles of flax with an intimidating new flax brush transforming it into shiny fibres  which could have easily been mistaken for cuttings of her own blonde hair.  Judith’s appetite had taken a turn away from the pickled pork and instead turned to the pickled cucumbers she had taken a liking to aboard the Lyon.  She had also finished a good portion of a bowl that had nothing but honey and butter in it.  Her tummy felt a new tightness and tingly warmth that she was already well familiar with.  Mary was working with the butter minding her own until she heard Jacob ask, “What’s troubling you mother?”
Judith answered him with a question that held everyone’s attention for a good few seconds: “Would you like a sister or a brother Jacob?”
John Sr.’s eyes lit and jaw dropped held up by smiling and blushing cheeks with the look of joyous surprise.  “Are you certain my dearest?  Let me get the step.  We are going to try the Powah test.”
John brought out a small stepping block made of leftover wood from their makeshift home.  “Step up”.  Mary took a step up on the block.  John nodded his head with everyone waiting for his response.  He teased their anticipations further.  Judith queried, “Then would it be a girl?”  John diverted her attention and asked Elizabeth, “Would you hand me a good thread of flax daughter?”  Elizabeth quietly picked and cut a thread she was working on twisting.  He took Judith’s ring and tied the ring on the flaxen cord and dangled it.  It swung around and around.  “From the foot she chose and the movement of the ring and the honey lacking in her dish, I would say she will be a, a, “, he paused in teasing for which Judith and all the children’s voices pleaded “John! Father! Papa!” together. 
“A Girl!”
Mary and Elizabeth exchanged a look and then at John Jr and finally to the two lads.  Mary held Jacob’s hand, “You’re going to have a little sister!  Won’t that be exciting?”  Jacob didn’t look as pleased as she had expected.  Thomas was happier at the prospect.  Their expressions gave dad and John Jr. a chuckle.  
Mary offered to Judith, “I will help you mother.”.  Elizabeth chimed in a “I, as well.” and Judith lovingly smiled back at them.  Judith got out of her chair slowly as if almost to start playing the weakened lady but then started a brisk walk to the door.  She returned, “I will surely let you know and again as I need it.  I will ask Margaret to help me as well.  I will ask her to come board with us.”  
Margaret came by and started situating the house. Industriously, they went deep into their daily chores, seeing them as an art instead of just a drudgery.  “Every drudgery is an opportunity for invention and cunning.”, Judith would remind them.   Mary taught Margaret the arts of enfleurage and salve making.  Thomas and Jacob were becoming strong young men and were very able at tending the livestock as John Sr prepared them for a new home in Ipswich.  Mary still milked the cows and took the chicken eggs and cooked food and churned butter as Elizabeth continued to comb, spin and weave flaxen sheets and do the laundry for Judith’s upcoming delivery. 
The day of deliverance finally came for Judith.  On the moon of Gemini at the start of June, Judith went into labour.  The men were outside, not allowed in.  Every birth was a new ordeal to Judith.  She was unaccustomed to a delivery on this new land, new town of Boston had few doctors to boast of.  The ones they did have were very novice.  Judith was grateful to have a trained midwife like Margaret there by her side.  Through some touch of magic, Judith’s ordeal was very easy and short with Margaret’s gentle coaching of mom and coaxing of the baby.  Mary was there with Elizabeth to help.  Margaret insisted on using flax which could be boiled clean and dried in the sun to catch the precious child saying that it would ensure mother did not catch illness from the bad airs found in the shade.  Mary contributed skullcap and catnip and sunlight flower tinctures along with cramp bark. Margaret helped massage and position Judith during her labor pains.  Mary also kept blood staunch of yarrow in case of bleeding and Motherwort on hand in case the false early labor cramps.   
Margaret noticed Judith going into a full body labor meaning it would be soon.  She helped by humming a tune which would help time the push every few minutes.  
Margaret had already coached Mary that when mom is starting to tire or feel and end coming to the automatic pushing to encourage pushing to help finish the labor, giving reassuring pauses with each hum of the right spot in the tune.  Judith’s water broke and right after, the little baby girl had slipped on out.  Margaret and Mary worked together to develop a salve that would naturally relax Judith for the baby’s exit with little resistance. Mary and Elizabeth teamed up to help work on the cord and swaddle the baby and check the baby’s sex with Margaret’s instruction.   After a few seconds of being handled, the baby let out a big wailing non-stop cry.  Waaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaghhaaaghhaggh!  Waah!, Weaahh!
“It’s a healthy baby girl!” announced Elizabeth as she handed the swaddled child to Judith to hold and settle down with.  
“Awwww”
“Ohhhh”
The girls all gathered around adoring the tiny baby who looked up at each of them with big deep eyes.  
“You are a Godsend Margaret.” sighed Judith in relief, sweating heavily wet and exhausted.  Mary had prepared a boiling pot and a cool water pot to pat the heat away and a fresh spring water jug and a cup for Judith to drink. 
John Sr. was nervously pacing as was almost always the case with a father-once-again. Mary was sent to tell father the good news. His face lit with joy and gratitude for their excellent work. 
Mary and Margaret embraced each other a last time for the time to come. 
“I love you Mary.” sobbed Margaret as she held her close.  
“And I you Margaret.”, answered Mary not totally grasping the depth of feeling Margaret was having.  Margaret in fact shuddered with emotions.  
Margaret kissed Mary on the cheek tenderly.  “My friend always.”,  
“Always Margaret.” 
“Do not forget to write me or else!”, sobbed Margaret sternly at Mary holding a pointed finger softly on her shoulder. 
Mary strode off, turning her head as she walked behind Judith and Lydia carted in a small wagon pulled by their small team, lead slowly by her father and brother, Thomas and Jacob held onto her hands.  Elizabeth strolled on her own ahead.  Whenever Mary turned around, there was Margaret waving a handkerchief, the blush from her tears still visible from a distance.  
The wind picked up greatly as the moved along the trail.  Mary could hear her baby sister suckling away. 
The next month, Mary received post that Margaret safely went back to Charleston.  
Someday, I will tell you what this does.  I fear that day may be cut short.  
From what I can tell, you will outlive every sibling and your first child.
One of your children will force you to learn a new kind of compassion.
Keep it with you.  It may be that my soul would tell you from the dust of the grave.

