Baby Lydia had just gone to sleep Judith’s arms as she sat in her favorite chair.  She grew fast in the space of a few moons.  The construction John Sr had done with the help of his friends and family there in Ipswich had been miraculously quick.  John wanted to give Lydia the best home he could.  The winter was fortunately mild.  The family furniture had grown and was still piled up from the move.  
“Mary,” Judith called her in a familiar tone for something not unpleasant. 
“Going swiftly Mother!”, replied Mary.
“You were right you know.”
“Oh?”, she feigned a little surprise although she inwardly knew what mother might say.  She was waiting to hear it and she had a hunch this was the time. 
“Yes, about Lydia, about arriving here.  I should be more careful when I answer your questions.  But at the least, we are all here safe and sound.”
***
Weeks passed and the teenagers were getting bored of their chores despite how demanding they were and decided to go to the meeting house construction site.  Elizabeth and Mary came across two girls and a boy who they watched playing tossing a bundled rag across a field of just reaped.  Elizabeth got nervous approaching them and Mary feels shy too.  They finally walked up. 
“Can we be of service to you?” offered Elizabeth in an unusually stilted manner.  Elizabeth never felt comfortable these days.  She had moved around so much it was hard to keep making new friends.  
“Who are you and what is your purpose here?” replied a girl ignoring the offer of service.
“My name is Elizabeth Perkins and this is Mary also of Perkins.”
“Oh, I’ve heard about Perkins before!  Is your brother the Quarter master and keeper?”
“Why yes that, he is.” replied Elizabeth. 
“I am Joanne and this is my brother James.” said the girl.
“Am not!” replied James with an eye roll. 
“It’s just a game.  My father is William Sargent, So do you want to play with us?” replied Joanne..
“Sure but we don’t want trouble ok and you must not speak too much of this. We have chores to do.” replied Elizabeth
“I know a better place we can play, How about the center of the green? I’ll bring my batting stick and we can play a quick game of ball.”, chimed James.
***
They walk towards the middle of the green but find there’s people already there.  
“Hey George, come help me out here!” said a man in the distance.  George was a brawny man in all his measures very large with a soft beard, strawberry blonde hair and brown muscles poking out of his clean white sleeves.  Elizabeth stared at him in girlish awe.  Joanne and James were also staring him down.  They could hear another man whistling in the distance as he carried planks of wood.  They look back over realizing they had an audience.  Elizabeth looked around at everyone.  “We really can’t just sit here staring;” glad she was now looking busy by talking, “let’s try and dance to that tune he’s whistling, that should amuse them!” 
Mary thought this might be an opportune time to try her hand at a love spell.  Keeping the visual from her book in mind, imagining it vividly, the heart, the flame, the thorns, animating it in her mind, she uttered the words softly, the Latin syllables whispered sounding unusually odd.  Elizabeth didn’t seem to even notice except that maybe Mary was just being odd.  She closed both eyes, opened one eye looking forward at George and winked as she repeated it three times with exacting pronunciation and mustering the feelings in her heart just as she had learned. 
Elizabeth was still making eyes at George as the held hands skipping in a circular motion, turning her head and keeping her gaze on him, checking on him. Mary saw George look right at her and he smiled back.  Mary was taken by a bit of surprise and wondered at her own efficacy of her love charm.  Just seconds later, the echoes of cheers came to their ears.  Mary looked at herself in her mind’s eye, feeling small, young and vulnerable compared to her older sister and friends.  Elizabeth notices George is not looking at her but someone else, wondering if it’s Mary or Joanne. When she realizes it’s Mary, she feigns getting tired and slows them down to a stop.  “Whew!”
The claps and cheers could be heard from afar.  Hooting and hollering and whistlings forming a cacophonous ring in her ears.  
Joanne looks at Mary, “My stars Mary, it looks like the men really took to you!”
“Maybe it’s because I had to skip higher than the rest to keep up with you!” exclaimed Mary, now feeling the exhaustion settling in and her wind leaving her.  
“He’s got to be at least 36 or 37 Mary, you’re only 18!  Why would he waste his time checking out someone half his age?!  I’m the one who Mom wants to start dating.  Besides, I saw him first and we have more in common.” protested Elizabeth, looking like her spirit had just been drained.
“Elizabeth…” started Mary.
“No, let’s not talk about this, we should be getting home by now, the sun is almost settling on the hills.” countered Elizabeth.
***
Mary and Elizabeth ran home as fast as they could. They saw Judith standing at the door, tapping a wooden spoon against her palm and glowering at them.  Thoughts rushed through Mary’s mind wondering if mother had the omniscience to know what they were just up to that day.  Play was discouraged in favor of work during these busy times.  The only play should be work related play...that was plenty of play for her.  She forgot the obvious.
“I was worried sick about you two.  You’re home much later than usual and I’ve been taking care of your brothers and the baby this whole time.  I hope you brought me clean baby cleaning cloths!” she syncopated in between baby bawlings. 
Both Mary and Elizabeth hung their heads in shame admitting guilt. There was no getting past this and they knew how it would go. There would be no talking back, just head wagging to all their disappointment and a sudden rush of getting to business in rectification and restitution of their negligence.  Behind their heads, Judith unfurled her brow in both relief at their return and relief of taking on the sole duties.  Elizabeth grabbed baby Lydia smelling the immediate concern Judith had with the clear implication that she’d manage the mess there.  Mary took Jacob and Thomas to where Elizabeth was changing Lydia away from Judith who slid out to the kitchen to finish a supper she had started on.  Judith took comfort in tending the fire despite the heat.  Alone at last she could lose herself in the bubbling waters in her pot.  Elizabeth gave Mary another sour look which Mary ignored.  Mary looked concerned since Elizabeth held her baby sister in her arms all the while slamming rags into the bucket. Taking a hint, she handed Lydia to Mary as she started working on the mess on the floor she had made in her haste create by her mood.  Why would Elizabeth blame it all on her? It was her suggestion to play with them.  She was reminded of this look some time in the past when she was first a-courting with Waylon.  Just then, a large bump bump thud was heard.  Elizabeth had slipped while turning around twisting her ankle. 
“Owwwwwwww!”
“Liza, what happened? Are you ok?”
Elizabeth hobbled off on one foot to Judith.  Elizabeth cast Mary a look, not of blame this time but self-frustration but also unwillingness to take her assistance.  Mary felt sorry for her but also hurt that she’d not let her help her out this time.  
After another hour of rocking Lydia in her arms, it grew quieter.  Her mind wandered to babies of her own, who her husband might be one day. Mary gleamed a bit thinking about the possibility of new romance.  Somehow, the pain she felt with Waylon faded and was now replaced with a new kind of pain she knew had to be the guilt for having new feelings and not being loyal to her old ones.  Was it enough time?  While she knew the folly of hanging onto death forever, she could still not help the feeling of the growing guilt inside her and the longing to replace it all with potential new love.  A fog and blindness of obsession set in her heart, sending it thumping in anticipation of these new possibilities.  Am I in love?   Mary knew she wouldn’t have picked George out of a line up of suitors but the situation of competing with Elizabeth, putting her back in a place of sorts made this compelling. A filthy but tempting mix of infatuation, satisfaction and longing to love again filled her heart with a craziness that seemed to feel like love all over again.  The excitement was there.  He was a fine gentleman. His age seemed to have been compensated by his charm. 
This whole time, Mary was oblivious going through her chores with the flurry of thoughts speeding through her mind like a busy crossroad.  Lydia was going to sleep in her arms and she gave her fresh milk from the morning’s milking. She didn’t notice the babbling noises of talking place in the other corner of the house between Elizabeth and Judith.  The boys were occupied with setting up the table with dinner wares as Judith had trained them to do. 
Elizabeth switched out of a whisper and into a merely low tone as she told Judith, “I do think Mary has a new suitor. We’re so sorry but she was interrupted and tried as best as she could to break away back home…”
“This is all too soon. We just got here, how can we do anything to mind this matter or prepare for her courtship if we barely know the people who have moved here.”
“John knows a lot of them.”
“Still, we have barely become acquainted with any of them and I’m telling you now.  Mary’s still too young and it’s still too soon since she lost her last young gentleman suitor.  These things never go well when done in such haste.  Can we not slow down enough to get our own matters taken care of before we run off in every which direction we can?”
“We’ve been through alot and we have tired ourselves out. No rest or merriment at all for our souls?  Our heart will not last through the amount of work if we keep heading into it without reprieve.  We’ll be languishing through our lives without fulfilling the measures thereof, glorifying no one.” replied Elizabeth, feeling a bit at odds with herself seeing how this might help Mary to her own detriment.  Stil, her own heartache was starting to wear on her.
“What do you suggest then?”
“What about we meet in the green for the next feast and we bring a portion of food for everyone using your most delicate arts in bakings.”
“There’s a pleasant thought for the soul. Let’s go ahead then and let our neighbors know that we will attend the next feast.” replied Judith, “...as long as you help with everything else this week.”
That took a little cheer out of Elizabeth’s face but she then quipped, “Perchance then we will find someone who can help us out here so we can attend to the needs of our spirits in worship and care for others.” with her usual persuasively encouraging tone.
“I want you to also keep an eye out for Mary and not go fooling around with silly suitors of your own.  Both of you need to train your hearts to making things improve in our home here.  I will not suffer another day of idle sporting with the gentry here at the cost of our younger children and your father’s care.” replied Judith.
***
Dressed in their best finery, the Perkins enter the space filled with tables and benches and a canopy made from old sails. Elizabeth lead them in the front with a limp and chooses an empty spot right in front of the man they called George. Judith looks dismayed wondering if this is the gentry she had envisioned in her mind’s eye that gave Elizabeth and Mary so much rivalry the past few days.  George doesn’t pay any mind to Elizabeth, bowing his head as if in prayers over food about to be served.  At least he’s a devout man thought Judith. But an old lanky Scotsman from the looks of it. Elizabeth cleared her throat a few times. A few seconds later George looks up and stands up looking apologetically hurried at having not stood for the entry of ladies. 
“Greetings good ladies and gentlemen just arriving. Sir, “ nodding to John Sr., “Madame, “ nodding to Judith. He was apparently senior in that group but without a wife. 
“How do you do Sir, I don’t believe we’ve had the good grace of meeting yet.” offered John Sr, “May I introduce you to my family.”
“My pleasure good sir. If I may go first, I am Mister George Carr. Please just call me George.”
John was taken back a bit but realized he was just being welcoming since they were the newcomers and John Sr. was not used to having to make second introduction.
“I’m Sargent John Perkins and this is Good Wife Perkins. My eldest son could not join us due to his calling and duties but may join us some other day, the Lord willing.  Here is my darling daughter Miss Elizabeth, Miss Mary, Master Thomas, Master Jacob and our newest blessing, Lydia.”. With that John Sr. went to help his wife and daughters into their chosen seats. 
Elizabeth took to quickly smiling in her subtle way at George coupled with a stare that betrayed her shyness. Elizabeth didn’t want to let her feelings of disappointment get in the way of her attempts at charming him so in frustration, she just sat still trying to show her prettiest features.  None of this got George’s attention. But instead, he looked over again at Mary.  Prayers of thanks and food soon arrived. 
John Sr breaks the ice, “So George, I hear you are the local shipwright in town, was I right in hearing that?”
George puts down his fork and responds, “That’s right, I have built a boarding dock and have the rivers hauling for me day and night.  … it’s a good stable line of work for me.”
“That sounds good George, maybe we can work out a deal on some trades.”
“I’d be happy to, I need more able bodied men.”
“I’m afraid I can’t help you there, we’re looking for help ourselves.”
“Well, we can come to some arrangement later, I have way too many shipments waiting on shore. I have lots of flour, ale, cloth and shoes that someone dropped off and I haven’t heard from them since.” replied George, Elizabeth’s eyes opened.  Mary cleared her throat., “Mister Perkins, I could have sworn I saw your daughter Miss Mary here not long ago somewhere. Are you sure we haven’t met before?”
“I don’t have a memory of it.” replied John Sr. With that, they continued to eat a while.
“In any case, I’m about ready to hand it off to the savages unless I can get a pound or two for it. Do you know anyone who would be able to pick it up?”
Mary beamed a smile at dad who picked up the idea, “I can look at the cloth goods and pick some out to bring home.”, the thought of the adventure and prestige gave Mary a bit of a thrill but it also nagged her how Elizabeth felt. 
“At least let me pack her a good lunch for her travel and labors.  She’ll go back before sun starts to shade again.” said George sounding very mature and grandfatherly almost.  George was older than Mary by about 15 years but younger than John Sr about that many years.  George had a very wrinkled face but a full head of hair while John Sr had greys above his ears and peeking through his stubbled face.
“Aye George. I can send her tomorrow if you so need it”
“Aye Sir, it would please me to help us both but as you so wish.”
“It will be tomorrow then.  Mary, you’ve got chores tonight.”
Mary nodded.
***
At home, Elizabeth was fretting, angry and upset again. This time she was in tears. Mary came up to her looking at her in the eyes.  “I don’t want him to break your heart sister.  I will make haste with my business there for you.”
“No Mary, I apologize to you.  I have wronged you and it must be my lot to continue in my loneliness.  I cannot take away your joy if that is how he chooses.  It was not meant to be if he does not return my favor in kind.  Take no such cares for what I am doing, be happy and carefree.  I will find a suitor some day and make dates with him.  I should be lucky to have even one as it seems.”
“Lizzie, I can’t.”
“For me Mary, do not make me feel guilt for holding back your happiness.  The devil is one who wants others miserable as himself.  I will endure what the Lord sees fit to try me with.  I just thank the Lord each day he has not lead me into temptation.  I shouldn’t cease it, the Lord will bless according to the will of the Father.”
“Enough of the Sunday prophesying for me Lizzie but you what is in your heart and spirit and you will be blessed in patients and due time.  Some people are much happier when these come about later than sooner in life. Either way, I will keep my heart with yours as I travel to and fro there and will not burden your soul. I will pray for guidance.”
“Thank you Mary.”
Elizabeth grabbed Mary and hugged her tight. 
***
The cock crowed and the sun shone in the windows casting long streams of light onto the bare floor.  Mary thought a rug would be so much nicer there. She walked to the cart by the barn and took each handle on it and walked up the road in a plain but clean white apron and frock. Her hair was put into a bonnet.  As she goes past the green, the memory of when she first laid eyes on George came into her mind.  She felt a sudden fright, awkwardness, cold and numb legs, her body was shaking so slightly from these new thoughts.  There was thrill and dread rolled into one.  She walks up to the door and knocked between the iron hinges.  Everything about this place was sturdy like a ship but smaller. It might have been like a cabin plucked right out of a vessel. 
There was no answer.  She could hear wooden boards clacking together behind the path along the side.  George was there stacking boards.  When he turned his head and saw Mary, he let the boards fall and tumble out of his hands. “Lo..”  He seemed a bit shocked. 
Mary gave him a little grin, “Have I arrived too early ...?”
“George”, he broke in.
“George”, she continued, knowing already how he was to be addressed.
“No, not early Mary.”
He sat there in thought for a second. “Let me get you the chest of cloth I have and start packing you up.”
She watched as George hauled out a chest and then proceeded to empty bags of flour into a bigger crate and then nail it all together. “It’s all yours for one shilling.”
Her cart was half full but at least she wouldn’t return empty handed.  He looked into her face and then smiled.  She could see his teeth were stained.  She was put off by it a bit.  At least he wasn’t spitting and chewing. It was typical tea.  He apparently worked very hard.   
“I got these for you.”, George hands her a bunch of wildflowers. 
“Oh they’re so pretty!  No one’s gotten me flowers before!  I could cry.”, her eyes welled up, she felt a sudden surge of emotion. Relief that he was a sensitive and hardworking man and clearly had more on his mind than business.  She was overcome with worries again.  I didn’t really plan on this.  He seemed to be all business at the table.  She looked at the flowers again and his face.  There was something strong and handsome about him.  He was on the old side but he had a wonderful build like a very protective type.  He came in closer to her.  He spent a minute looking at her in the eyes but did not move in for a kiss.  Instead he put his hand around her.  Held her tight for a second. He closed his eyes. It was an embrace that was both strong and romantic.  She held her breath.  She could feel his sweat, smell his musk on him. She worked a  hand out and he started to release his hold.  
“I am sorry. I forgot. I must smell like the ditch water from a drained pond out here.  Let me change.”
He moved away just out of view.  Pulled off his shirt and looked to see if she was looking back. She was caught off guard staring.  She blushed and pulled her gaze back to the ground in front of her.  He moved further out of sight, taking his time looking for a new shirt. As he turned around, she could see his tanned arms and very fair skin. His chest was thick, pink nippled and covered in a tawny blonde fuzz with red sheen in the light. He wiped his chest showing his big arms and seemed almost to show off and pretend she couldn’t see him.  He was definitely an unusual creature she had never seen the likes of before.  He was curious and alluring as a male all at once. Her mind started undressing him further..  She was feeling the heat of the day bearing down all around her.  She felt a dry mouth and sweat in her hands.   She stopped herself and noticed he had found a shirt, and started to look up.  She glanced away barely this time. She could see out of the corner of her eye that he was watching her back checking her manners. He stretched into his shirt, the sleeves holding onto his thick arms and he forced them through. He came out cordially smiling. 
“Well, let’s have some lunch then and have a chat.”, he motioned her with his finger to follow him.  She walked sheepishly into his home. She had remembered loving before and being so comfortable around Waylon.  George made her a little nervous and thrilled at the same time.  She felt happy again. For the first time in a long time, she felt some semblance of joy since being with Waylon  It was a new place she assured herself.  He was also very intimidating in build.  He motioned her to sit.  He went to grab some food and a candle for light and lit it.  
“Tell me what the world has been like for you.”
“I have been milking the cows, tending the garden, tending the baby, I don’t get to do much with spinning or weaving. I clean a lot.  Father says I’m the best at cleaning.”
“That is so remarkable.”
“How is this remarkable?”
“I mean, you’re so open and free with your words.  I am simply, well, a simple man. A worker. I hope to be independant.  You seem very independant.  That’s good.”
“Oh, that’s what you meant. I don’t know what to say really.”
“You’re a very pretty girl Mary. How old are you?”
“I reckon around seventeen.”
“That’s perfect.  I mean that’s the perfect age to become independant.”
Mary couldn’t respond.  It was awkward still.  She couldn’t figure out what he was going to say next.  They ate a lunch of potherbs, ale and then he poured her wine.  He poured more wine. 
He finally spoke up again with a slight hiccup. “I hope I will see you again soon.  Please?”
She saw his vulnerable side.  She wasn’t drinking as fast as he was.  She felt in control enough to respond with a kind assurance. “Sure I will George.  I do plan on living here for a good while.”, She tried to improve on that. “I would be happy to see you again.”  
He sobered up a bit. “When?”
“Not tomorrow but how about Sunday? We can go to church together. And have dinner.”
He seemed innocent enough. A real romantic.  While he stumbled, he picked up her flowers, took her to the cart.  She noticed it was a bit more past the time she had wished to leave. He bowed, blew a kiss, waved her off.  She trudged back wishing it hadn’t ended so soon.  At least there was someone now she could talk to, be with.  She might be able to work her mother into letting her go out if she knew he was interested and perhaps courting her. 
***
She arrived home.  Elizabeth hobbled over and hugged Mary. She was still busy with weaving. Mary looked at Elizabeth with a smile to assure her things were all well.  Mary wasn’t sure what to tell mom yet.  For all they knew, it was just business. Judith went outside and opened the boxes. She looked into the bags of flour.  Inside there were some weevil carcases and just a few bits of flour mixed in.  Judith wasn’t sure what to say to Mary but she was already starting to read between the lines.  She opened the chest hoping to see bolts of woven cloth.  There was one bolt of cloth but there were also women’s clothes.  His mother’s perhaps?   These clothes were much more fashionable and small like for a frail thin woman. They looked fairly new.   Perhaps George thought they could resell these or use these for something else.  They looked costly enough to be a good bargain but she wondered how she could have mistook the thought of there being fabric for clothing.  How did they both fail to inspect the bags of flour? Young people. 
Mary was still inside chatting with Elizabeth, trying to be honest. Mary was indeed happy, thrilled, not sure if she was in love but so happy as to swoon and sigh all the same so Elizabeth would stop pressing her. 
“You are in love...don’t try to hide it Mary Perkins, or should I say the future Mary Perkins Carr.”
That threw Mary for a loop.  that sounded so peculiar even though it had easy enough speech to it. It was just so unexpected.
***
The next day, Joanne came over with James for an hour and then returned. Joanne told Mary, “He’s saying he has a new girlfriend.  I overheard it one the way over.”
“You can’t be serious.”  
“He wants the whole world to know you’re his now.”
“That was very quick of him.”
“Not a very experienced suitor.  But then again, these are changing times and a changing world. Who is to say how is too quick.  I see many girls marrying quick so they can have lots of babies to care for things.”
Mary felt her pulse and breathing pick up.  Her nerves were just too high.  Was she worried that George might end up like all the others?  Play along for now.  I want to see where this goes.  I’m not anxious to look.  Oh what have I gotten into?  It’s not on my time.  Maybe I can help slow this down, assure mother this will be ok.  Mary was quiet the rest of the night.  Her thoughts kept her up at night.  She couldn’t sleep but eventually found herself waking up, bags under her eyes. 
***
As Sunday arrived, Mary was ready.  She had inquired about the church.  It was just barely built. This time she’d be in her Sunday best. Modest, clean, respectable.  Mary felt cautious.  Wasn’t going to make that same mistake again.   George arrived just as it started as Mary waited there. 
 George took her softly by the hand. Mary couldn’t help but blush but went along with it.  She knew by this time, the cat had to come out of the bag and what a cat it was. Whispers were heard and at that point, Mary knew she would stick by him.  There were other men sitting together, glancing and wondering if they had the courage to approach Mary and fend off George.  For once, Mary felt like a proper part of the community at large.  She looked radiant and was grabbing all the eyes.  George look solid and firm and stoic there.  He was as charming as ever chatting with his friends, the hired hands who had worked for him before.  As was proper, George introduced Mary to the reverend.  Her mind was so overwhelmed she had no way of keeping a name there.  They opened with various prayers, slight echoes were heard.  It was the one thing the churches had in common was that no matter how small, they all seemed to carry an echo.  All the congregational churches looked roughly the same but the readings and prophesying varied a lot between too soft to hear and overwhelmingly loud.
During the reading, George started to sit closer and then put his arm around her holding her in tight.  His warmth felt cozy, he took control and turned to smile at her.  She smiled back and would go back to listening and blending in.  Every once in awhile, she thought she saw George looking at a few of the other girls even younger than herself. After a while, he squeezed her and put his arm back down in his lap.  Mary had a hard time understanding the reading, it sounded Latin but unfamiliar and fast.  She thought the song sounded like something out of the Poor Clares, a group of nuns who sang as far as she knew.  After this soft song, a very loud speaker rose up. 
“What will you do for God? That is the question I have often asked myself. What are you willing to give up? The problem I see today is that too many do not remember that in Israel, when Moses lead them to the land of promise, they lusted and forgot sacrifices. Should we let that happen to us?
“Nooooo / no / noo. “
“We have been lead to a new land of promise, not my Moses but by God directly. Will we forget what happened? What happens when we forget to sacrifice? God is God. He will require of it from us anyway. He is free to torment us to teach us to get back. When you forget, he requires more. How many of you have been sick this week?”
Mary started nodding a little.  The hard seats did not feel comfortable. After what seemed like hours it finally ended.  She got up feeling ruffled for just sitting there.  She noticed her neck was drenched.  As she walked out to return to her family, she saw a younger man passing his gaze at her and holding it.  He lifted a corner smile and twinkled his eye in almost a wink. Mary froze still as George noticed and was looking at her. She looked up at him. He then turned his head towards the younger man who had turned his head away and had started to walk away.  
George stared angrily at him. 
“Who was that?”
“I don’t know.”
“Don’t lie to me Mary. You looked back at him.”
Mary clammed up and with it, George did too.  My first argument with him already.  Well, maybe it’s as they say, lovers who argue like an older couple have more to stick them together or something like this.  Maybe he’s just protective.  I really don’t mind that but I’m not used to this.  If I’m in love, do I really need other suitors?
***
George took Mary to his home to have dinner in his two horse team wagon. As they arrived, various men she didn’t recognize were sitting in the cool shade inside his home with the door open.  They were chowing down on something..  
“Get out of here!”, George bellowed. The way he did this scared Mary at first.  He was a real brute alright but it got her a lot of notice. He softened back up when he had her sit down across from him at the table.  “Mary, I’m so glad you would join me.  I’m sorry if I was cross with you.  I am not happy when other guys think they can step into another man’s business when it’s clear I was with you.”
“I know you were just being chivalrous George.”
“Mary, I don’t want this to end. I’m just …..afraid…. of losing you.” he stammered out.  If men like him could cry, he would have but instead he stammered which was about as close as he got.  “Tell me you feel the same as I do.”
“Well, I really don’t know for sure……”
“You love me don’t you!?”, he asked looking very sad suddenly with his face frowning and brows sloping together. It seemed comical but too unusual to not be sincere. 
Mary thought for a moment.  She knew she was feeling something, she didn’t want to disappoint him after seeing him so angry.  She felt a pressure build up inside her until the words blurted themselves out escaping into the open.
“I love you.”, she replied as convincing as she could.  A warm thought passed her thoughts. She felt warm in here.  It was a nice family home.  He had a very cozy fire.  He had done so many little things for her along the way.  She couldn’t help it.  
George pulled out a cask of wine.  He poured it out for her.  He got some pork out and bread and made her a plate.  The wine smelled lovely.  The pork was smokey flavored and delicious.  
“The summer is almost at an end.  We only  have so many Sundays when I can have you here in daylight and take you home as is proper.  I don’t want people to get the wrong idea…..”, he paused….then she paused. He then let out a laugh, “Ho hahaha hahaha. Oh me.”. Mary gave a heartfelt chuckle in response. 
They ate their fill.  George looked outside.  He had a stick in the yard that marked the shadows.  
“Time to take you back.” he said interrupting her mid-bite.  
He took her out and saw his brothers hard at chores, pulling ropes, lifting wood and angling it. He loaded her into the wagon and soon she was bumbling home with him on a warm sunset evening.  He would stare at her looking her up and down.  She felt shy.  She was so new to love. He seemed so familiar with things.  She tolerated it and for a moment, she felt like her charms must have kicked in.  When they finally stopped, he looks over at here. 
“I love you so much.”, his eyes teared but no sadness was in his face. It was a deep honest look.  
“I love you too.”
He reached across and got closer to her, his,face, serious, focused, coming in.  She blinked and then lowered her eyes, he lowered his eyelids and their lips touched as their eyes closed.  He had such a commanding presence.  The kiss was brief but seemed to last forever.  He smiled at her as they parted stares.  
“Come see me at the Tavern tomorrow?”
***
He held her hand as she stepped off and went into her home.  Judith was there at the door again, looking worried. 
“I’m glad you’re home.  So how is his family? I take it you got to meet them all and eat together?”
“He’s very well to do mother.  I…”
“I don’t mind that, I just want to know if his family is respectable and upright.  Are they good people?”
“I think they’re very hardworking and industrious family.  George is very quiet and private.  We didn’t really talk to his family...but nothing to worry, they were close by and had already eaten.”
“It’s too early to tell Mary.”
Elizabeth and father broke in next. “Want to tell us any more?”
“Don’t press her!” retorted Judith.
“Mary’s in love! Mary’s in love!” shouted Thomas sliding down his chair joking. John Sr. sat him upright again. 
John Sr. spoke to Mary once more: “You’ll never guess.”
“What is it?” asked Mary all eyes now trained on her.
“We’re getting a house maid tomorrow.”
“Hooray! That’s great. Now I won’t have to do dishes and I can keep these hands nice and soft for George.” 
Eyes popped at that remark as Mary ended with a sheepish chuckle as if it had been a joke.
***
Mary finished the rest of that night in relative peace and quiet.  More thoughts ran through her head.  What if he wants to get married?  I hope it’s not too soon that he asks.  Mom would have a fit or …..throw me into it laughing.  She hasn’t seemed all that worried about not having enough help now that she had a new house girl.
***
The next day at the tavern, Mary had finished up her chores, wore her prettiest outfit.  She knew she would see her friends there but she did not catch sight of George anywhere.  Joanne was there gabbing with a two other girls.  They appeared related, older, one taller with a grey streak and bony face.  The other a bit shorter, plumper with a spaced tooth and plump cheeks but the same eyes and nose as the other girl but a very wrinkly rouge and some hang of those cheeks over her neck.  She had a smile that seemed to stick there.  They both had dark eyebrows that seemed a little thick.
“Oh Mary, is that you? You look so majestic!”
“Hi Joanne, and you’re looking bright and lovely today.”
“Oh, go on. I was just telling Maybelle and Mehitable here all about your new gentleman suitor and how fortunate my new best friend is.”
“You both have such a grace about yourselves.” quipped Maybelle, Mehitable nodded.
“He’s so strong. I hear he’s already pulling in quite a good bit of trade with that ferry of his.” added Mehitable, “Please share with us what marvels he’s shown you.”
Mary blushed red in her ears and cheeks. She tried to think, she had rehearsed some of this in her mind already. 
“He’s protective, chivalrous, doting.  He seems very anxious to bring me in. Oh, and he has given me flowers, *sigh*, such a romantic.  “
“Not merely the strong big and simple type then.”
“He’s generous, witty, fun loving. ..oh and he sent me home with fabrics and a crate of flour…. that should keep me busy all winter.”
“You don’t think he’ll propose soon do you?”, asked Maybelle.
“If he asks are you going to say yes?”, asked Mehitable upstaging.
“I haven’t given it much thought yet, I mean I just met him…”, Mary said, stretching the fact she actually had given it a lot of thought given his signals. 
“Oh Mary, you’re going to love it I’m sure.  He may be older but he’s got connections and his family is Scottish nobility I hear.” said Joanne.
“He hasn’t told me that.”
Just then, George entered the small tavern room, slammed the door behind him. He went up to her and whispered harshly in her ear with the thick fume of alcohol and tobacco on his breath: “Mary, don’t let these old spinsters fill your head with nonsense.”  He gave them a look and pulled Mary on his arm and marching out so fast Mary stumbled on the threshold. She turned back to give one last look of goodbye to the girls, her eyes open in a bit of astonishment. 
He took her down to the drinking tables and put his arm around her and then looked at her sternly. “I don’t like those gossips.  They’re full of wiles and plots that tend to break couples apart.  They’re a bunch of harlots playing the game here.”  Mary seemed a bit worried but it didn’t seem to her they were harlots, gossips perhaps but nothing about them seemed provocative in the least.  In fact they looked more demure than she had.  “If you’re seen with them, people will think you’re playing the same game.  Not my Mary! Someone has to look out for ya.” Mary looked a little worried with a furled brow but tried to conceal it.  “Now now, I was just looking out for you, cheer up, I’m here. So why are you so late?”, he stared at her a bit bug eyed and serious.
Mary didn’t know if she dare mention the fact she had already been there too look for him. She decided it would be best to tell the truth. “I was here on time but saw my friends and did not see you, so I joined them.”
“Don’t lie to me Mary, I was here the whole time. Did you merely gaze a second and not see?”  Mary looked out the window, a man was just hitching his horse and coach over the grass and the horses started to graze.  She knew he was lying but she didn’t dare call him on that or call him a liar for it would be a grievous sin to be born if that word got out that she was scheming against her husband already.  She could tell her story but they would only accept his and believe the worst about hers. 
George took Mary out of view by a large cistern in a stack of empty crates, barrels and firkins. “I’m sorry, don’t be angered by me” sobbed Mary.
“Mary, I want you to promise me something.” said George, his mood changing to alleviate her concerns.
“Yes my dear?”
“I want you to swear, swear on the Testaments, Old and New, that you will not talk of me to others. The moment you do, is the moment the devil in his wiles will try to break apart our love with idle tales.  You only need to talk to me of what troubles you. Will you swear it?””
Without a pause and with a fast beat in her heart, Mary mustered up the words, “I swear it on the Testaments.”
“Old and New”
“Old ..and New”
“Good, I will tell you something great and marvelous.”
“I have been assured I will have a contract with a yardmaster in Boston soon who is going to let me ship everything that comes in here.  I’ll make sure you get the first cut of all the finest clothes, meats and ales I bring in. Don’t tell anyone though, it’s not final yet.  I don’t want anyone to try and spoil my deal.  Just think, Lord George Carr and Lady Mary Carr, the greatest of merchants and the first in line to sell to England.”
Mary thought in her mind of owning the tavern there, the trading posts, wearing beautiful dresses, gold, jewelry.  She also felt a great deal of guilt.  She didn’t want these things.  She wanted love, comfort but not extravagance. She wanted peace and relaxation, not an endless keeping of books and bills, rosters and papers. She saw enough when she was in Bristol.  She loved the idea of sailing in a ship over tranquil waters like the last time she was in love.  Her thoughts went back to a place she dared not think about.  Her heart sank a bit but then she looked at George and smiled at him.  He smiled back. 
“Kiss me.” he said. 
She looked confused, he leaned in and kissed her, pressing his tongue around and bearing his strong body against hers.  Something about this felt exhilarating, forbidden and enrapturing and yet she felt like she wasn’t in her own skin. He pulled away and caught her breathe.  She could taste the fumes she had smelled earlier, there was a bitter and smoke to it, the smell of grains and his sweat full of pungent musks and human odor like a young man. She felt bewildered by all this. He pulled away, her eyes by now were dim and she saw stars.  As her dizziness swirled to a rest and the lights came back she held herself back up.  He gave a chuckle.  She drooped her eyelids.  He responded with a smile.  She was glad to be back and amazed at his strength which he took as a satisfaction with his gestures.  
“I hope that wasn’t too much.”
“No, it was nice George.”
“When can I see you again? Before church?”
“I can’t come back here this week. You could always come to visit us.  ”
George took her handkerchief. “I’ll return this to you on the morrow.”
“You could always ask my mother and father who are also here.”
“No need, I’ve got this worked out,” he stalled her, “I have something for you.”
George pulled out a gold-like necklace with a single garnet. 
“It’s a pinchbeck. It’s not real gold but it looks like gold.”
“Oh George, that’s beautiful!” She admired the necklace running her hands over it. Mary’s weakness was jewelry. Her heart softened to the point her aching heart acted. She threw her arms around George and squeezed him tight and planted a peck on his lips.  He embraced her again and more gently.  They kissed for what seemed like hours.  
Mary thought back to how George didn’t like those girls. She had to admit, she barely knew them either. Maybe he would be more impressed of her friend Margaret, not that they would ever meet but she wanted to let him know she had friends who were not just gossips. “George?”
“Yes?”
“Those girls back at the at the tavern. I should have you know they are merely acquaintances. I would never talk to them about real matters in my life.  I do have a really good friend named Margaret in Charleston.”
“Really? What about her?” George pretensed interested but let her go on.
“Well, she’s a very skilled midwife. She has met a lot of important people. She knew Thomas Morton.”
“Merry Mount Thomas Morton?” his ears perked slightly as he glanced at her.
“The very same. He taught her all about the native wildlife, his magic, his arts and the nature of the tribes here. She is below her to gossip. She’s a very smart woman, well-dressed and very selective with friends. I think you would like her….but she is a lot older than me.”
George cowled at the thought of Indian tribes. He’d be happy if they were fully exterminated. “They’re just savages Mary. The last governor would have tried and hung Morton if he could. What I would really like is some help from the governors and magistrates in Boston to help me finance my river operation.”
“I’m sure she could help. But just so you know, Margaret didn’t go up to be with Morton or follow him. She was tempted but thought the better of it. He was a smart man even if he was full of errors. Margaret is much learned but she also knows when people have gone too far. She’s learned from the governor’s families too. Attended the same Dame Schools with their daughters. If you need help in Boston, I can ask her to introduce you around. Oh, and I don’t know if I ever told you about this but my brother fended off a raid of Indians. He was commended by John Winthrop himself.”
“I hope he took them all out. So what supernatural ability can you do Mary Perkins?”
“Well, my mother did teach me...well, I once started a fire from a distance.”
George pondered it as it sunk in but then shook it out of his head.
Mary heard her named called. She jumped up in the air. They both looked up, trying to make sure they didn’t look suspiciously messy. Her father was there to take her home so they both went back into view of the tavern folk. As they walked away, she kept her hands tight around the necklace.  Her father was smiling and they spoke little as they walked up and down the hilly trails quickly to get home.  They were both deep in thought the entire trek home. 
***
George showed up at Mary’s home with a servant boy.  George was dressed formally.  John Sr. answered the door, “Mr. Perkins?”
“Hello?”
“George Carr wishes to traffic with you regarding an item he believes belongs to your daughter Mary..”
“Please bring him here so we may welcome him.”
“Sergeant Perkins Good Sir.”
“Welcome George”, John offered a handshake for which George heartily returned.
“I understand you have something that is my daughter’s?”
“In truth I do Good Sir” as George pulled out her handkerchief, “May I give this to Mary myself if it please you and she can presently come here?”
“Of course” replied John, “Mary!”
John realized he would need to wait a few minutes for her. “I hear you are designing to operate a ferry in all these waters.  I have my home at the mouth of this river and I have the title to the rights there. Being that you are in good standing to take my daughter’s hand, should you wish to do so, I have a proposition that should be profitable to both of us. I would be happy to share the waterway I have and the trail I have with you if I could have a small interest in the Merrimack River.”
George grinned delightfully, “I would be most honored by your gesture of good will Sergeant.  It is very generous for you to do offer this.  If I could take you up on the offer this week, I have another shipment I could send you for it. Then I would be able to see how much this would be useful to me and I can designate a fair share based on that.”
“May I also visit with your daughter Good Sir? I had hoped to show Mary around the green today. I had also hoped to see her esteemed mother and father today if but briefly. I know I do not have your invitation yet.”
“Oh, of course George. Let’s have conversation after the Sunday meeting here. I ask that you bring her home before her supper before the sun touches down.  Please let me know your acceptance and responding proposition at that time.”
Mary of course had been planning the morning for his visit and had brought out her perfumes and salves and pleasant looking cloths which she made.  Elizabeth looked out, wearing one of the dresses George had sent them.  
***
George took Mary in the arm as gentlemanly as he could.  They walked to the green arm and arm and Mary started humming a hymn she had heard in church. George didn’t talk much until Mary had repeated her tune twice and had started into a third round: “I will talk to your father after Church on Sunday. I want you to borrow this and wear it.” George pulled out a gold necklace with a ruby and two emeralds in it. 
“Oh, it’s lovely George”
“You’ll get this if we wed.”
“I have something for you.”
Mary pulls out a cloth scented with roses, rosemary, bergamot and lime. It had his initials stitched in with a thread of her hair.
“I made this for you.  It isn’t a pricey thing but I made it just for you to keep you in good health and lift your spirits.”
George grimaced, “I don’t need your rags.  I have too many.”
Mary’s eyes welled up and audibly sniffed.  The walked several more steps, She lagged behind and hung her head low. 
“Don’t start acting like a child. Stop your nonsense and carry yourself like a lady. ”
Mary wiped her eyes but sniffled again. 
“I said stop or I will show you something better to cry about.”
She looked up at him like a sad pup as he puffed his chest out and pulled back his arms. She backed away scared. He lunged and picked her up by the waste and threw her on the ground. 
“If you’re going to act like this, go back home and don’t follow me.”
Mary got up, her dressed stained, her sobs held back almost like sneezes stopped against her lips and puffed her cheeks.   Her eyes were streaming and face was red.  She looked dazed and bewildered as she stumbled with her next step.  Something felt sprained. She could barely walk.
George stood there fuming, thinking. 
Footsteps and voice could be heard in the distance. George’s face went a little white and his countenance changed into that of a worried nanny. 
“Mary, oh look, I’m so sorry. Don’t say anything. Please don’t say anything!  It’s it’s only because this is how all men in our family are trained.”  Mary sobbed some more seeing it might be possible for her to let out.  
“Here you go”, he pulled out a rag.  Her lip was also cut somehow, possibly from her tooth from the force of her landing.  Mary confused didn’t want to take the rag.  “Come on Mary, here take it.” George looked around over his shoulders hearing more voices in the distance.  Outlines like black toothpicks stood against the bright horizon and green hills.  “I’m so sorry.  It won’t happen again. I promise.  I only do this because of my tradition. Women folk are to be loyal and they always are.  They are more loyal than horses waiting for the first harvest of hay.  It’s because of their husbands, they break their spirits like they break the spirit of a horse.  It means they are interested in taking them as wives.  Everyone does it where I am from.  But not everyone here does it.  It’s not something we can explain.  Mary, please talk to me.  You know what I want to do Sunday? I want to ask for your hand in marriage.  You will love it, I promise you.  I’m worried, I got confused. But I am sure I want you.  Will you pledge to marry me?”
George scooped Mary and put his arms around her now hugging her.  
“What’s the problem there?” a man approached over the crest of a hill. 
“My lady has taken a fall, this mud is too treacherous for walking. It was a folly for me to try and show my betrothed around the green today. I have her care in my hand Good Sir.  She’s not sorely hurt, just the mud on her dress”. He cupped Mary’s mouth a bit.  “You’re ok aren’t you Mary?” he glared into her eyes closely. 
“I’m ok” she shouted.  
“Now wave to him.”. 
Mary did as she was asked and waved.  
“Are you going to the log sawing tomorrow?”, said the man. George seemed to have recognized him.  Someone Mary did not know..  “Yes, I will be there.”, George waved.  The man waved and walked away.  
“Mary my beautiful, my beloved, I hurt inside when I can’t see you.  My heart is torn. Please see that I am still loyal and honestly in love with you.  You are my sun moon and stars Mary Perkins.  Please stay with me.  You will make my heart heal in time.  I promise. I have something I want to give you tomorrow, Come to the timber yard. We’ll be having a log sawing competition and I will make you a lunch.  It’s not more than an hour’s walk.“
**
He took Mary home but then asked.  “Where is your wash at?” Mary walked over to the water tub and boiling pot. “Good, you don’t need to dress the old queen around me as it is.”  She went to the water tub and soaked the edge of her dress in the water.  Her shins were raw with blood as she turned and landed on her knees and shins against the small stones when she took flew against the ground.  Grass stained the edge of her dress.  As she was washing, she looked over her shoulder and saw George walking away in his fine red coat and hat, his white stockings and neckcloth blurring in the distance.  His hair almost matched his coat and he had a very manly muscled gait.  His pants swished his coat tails as he moved, his weight seemed to blow everything around him. 
***
At high noon, Mary strolled up to the timber yard in a dress that was much looser and shorter and older. It looked older and a size too small so that her petticoat occasionally flashed. George was in the heat of sawing with the long strokes of his saw, each stroke pulling massively against the wood grains and blowing sawdust out over the ground against his boots.  His focus was intense and determined.  His log was being sawed quickly down in what seemed just a few strokes compared to his contestant who was still sawing, lightly and rapidly in a futile effort to keep up.  
Some of the younger boys were watching her come up.  George had just won, sweating and standing up to cheers.  A few men however instead of cheering were watching Mary walk up on the scene.  
“Look who is coming over!” said one boy blemished all over his face.
“Oh, she looks hot and sweet.”, said the other.
“Do I smell perfume? I think I just raised my mast.” remarked the poxed face lad.
“Oh, she’s got my sails fluttering.” replied the other wiping a dribble from his face.
George looked over angrily at them, ready to knock them out. “That’s my girl young squeaker. Go away you little rats before I stomp your spines and grind them into the dirt with my boot.” They both looked at each other, got up and ran off. 
George leaves the game in a huff and takes Mary behind the barn, pushing her up against the wall.  “Is this how you show your support for me?”
“What did I do?  I got here as soon as I could.”
“You show how much you love me by showing your petticoat to all the boys, playing the whore?”
“George, I didn’t have…”
“After all the dresses I gave you, you couldn’t find one modest dress?”
George ripped her dress at the hems, tattering it’s edges. Putting his coarse dirty hands all over her legs and squeezing them hard. 
“Couldn’t you!?”
“George...I, I….”
“No Mary, you are not going to humiliate me to my family. Make use of what I give you or the whole engagement is off!”
“No George…”
“Don’t sass me! Go put some clothes on before the whole village thinks your a loose woman.”
Mary shivered and started to stutter back.
     George pulled his hand back and slapped her, “I said do you hear me?!”
“Yes” she nodded, tears now coming out. 
“You did this to incite my wrath Mary.  You’re always inciting my anger.  Good women do not such lewd and tempestuous manner.  You lead men to hell like some evil whore like some hoary old witch if you keep this up.”  George was so red in his face as to color his blue eyes a shade of green hazel.  They were bloodshot and fierce.
He looked out and stomped off grabbing an earthen jug and marching back to his home. 
Mary fell to sit on the ground and cried.  She ran back home late and snuck to her bed in the dark when the candles went out.
*** 
That next morning, Judith looked at Mary and sensed something was very wrong.  She looked at her and saw her shins. She got out the salve and dressed her wounds.  She let her sleep in.
Judith went out of the home and to her new place.  She gathered a pot and some hemp twine and took it with her.  Her voice could almost be heard in the distance.  It was a voice that only came with the severity of a hex.  A hex that would hold George in his place for all his days to come. 
When Mary got up, Judith was there watching over her.
“I won’t let your father give your hand to that man.”
“Mother?! He’s my best chance here. He has so much to give.”
“We don’t want what he has to give.”
“Didn’t he give you wonderful things?”
“Actually no, he gave us garbage, useless flour, full of weevil husks.  He gave us dresses that were worn thin and ratty. You didn’t look at this?”
“No mother, I wanted those things for you.  I thought this might encourage you to let me go. All the other girls are getting married by this age. Why don’t you let me live my life?”
“You are still too young for that man Mary. Let him go. He’s not good for you. Besides, those girls are foolish to act so rashly, marrying the first man that comes along. You should have many suitors and when you have had time to settle in here. ”
“Mother, I do love him. He’s just protective of me and fights to keep me his.”
“Mary, that’s enough. You’re not going to let him treat you like this. Please listen to me.  You are ready for life but you don’t need to rush.  Just consider my words. I won’t force you but I ask you to consider my words deep in your heart mind and soul and ask yourself if you truly love him and if he truly loves you.”
“Mother, thank you. Don’t worry, I will think about what you have said. I do have chores to do.”
“Mary, I care about you. You are gifted beyond your own wisdom and courage and everything tells me to give it time and not hasten the time of your marriage. It will come soon enough.  You cannot neglect your gift.  Develop it.  Let it work for you.”  Judith hugged Mary. Mary got up and dressed and took the pail with her to milk the cows that morning. 
***
That Sunday, George was at church. Dressed in his same fine clothes that they went to the green with.  He looked haggard and his eyes bloodshot in the face.  His age was showing.  He reeked of drinking and vomit but looked outwardly clean.  Mary was not feeling her usual admiration for him.  Instead of looking handsome, he looked ill and restless.  He approached her and quietly took her hand.  She held it. I will have to talk to him after this letting him know I cannot continue with him.  But let me sit with him now so as to maintain reverence here at the chapel they’ve graciously taken me into.  His hands felt cooler to the touch but hard and firm like stone.  Mary’s head was throbbing with a headache.  The dusty smell of the church made her nose cold and she sneezed audibly.  The reverend was late arriving so they all waited.  George looked over at Mary with a scowl and farted loudly smirking to himself.  Several of his younger male peers and friends laugh at him. Mary’s face turned red.  One of the ladies in the pew in front turned around and stared him in the eyes.  Her countenance was like that of a bulldog wearing a neck cloth, she pointed her finger at him, “Reverence or we shall have to take you out with your foul air.”
“Old hag, turn around and mind yourself. I’ve had to put up with you old stinking bags for weeks.”
“Young lady, does he do this at home?”
“Old hag, her mind is infirm, she can’t hear you, nor will she talk to ...”
“I can hear you perfectly fine madam.”, Mary jumped in cutting him off, prefacing the feelings she would later have to reveal to him about their relationship.
“Don’t you contradict me publicly.  A woman obeys her man and agrees with his opinions in public”
“I am not yours yet.” yelled Mary. 
“Well, you tried to be mine, you temptress, you witch.  Your old pop tried to bribe me and all the boys saw you in the way flashing your petticoat and muttering to yourself and now I wonder if it was worth trying to take you back to the Lord.”, George smirked covering his tracks with a pretense of taking a wayward woman back to the grace of God.
Several voices gasped as he spoke but they did not immediately take George’s side as intimidating as he was. Mary’s family was sitting a few pews behind.  John Sr. kept an eagle’s eye on George.  He knew he couldn’t fight him verbally without violating their reverence or physically so he set out to outwit him.  He whispered to the other congregationalists they had become acquainted with after George left. 
“Leave her be. Be peaceable here or both of you will leave” said the woman’s husband sitting an elbow away.
With that George grabbed Mary by the arm and took her outside and pulled her to his wagon.  George pulled out a long black leather braided whip she had seen him use on his teams. 
He pushed Mary against the church bricks and stepped back a pace. Mary tried to dart left away from him, scared and heart throttled.  
“You are going to learn obedience Mary, if not from your father then from me!” yelled George blocking her exit.  Mary looked around a few seconds but George’s eyes were trained on her waiting for her to move.  She felt so trapped.  She looked one way for a second in deception.  It partially worked, as she darted the other way toward the road, she gained some distance but not enough.  With a couple whirrs heard behind her, she trips in reflex to the pain that suddenly rips cloth and skin over her left shoulder blade.  She feels a burn as the sound of the whip crack echoes in her ears. In confusion, her experiences jumbled out of the normal sequence of time, she looked over her shoulder to see a grinning man, a blur of red, laughing at her.  He stomped over to where she was to gain ground.  She ran around the corner of the church building.  He circled the corner cautiously, which avoided him bumping into the crowd just walking out gathering to the noise.  Mary hid behind them sobbing.  Judith took her into the building as her father, Elizabeth and a just-arrived Reverend and several able young men beside him stood there staring at him.  
“It isn’t what it looks like. She is being punished justly for dishonoring God.  She deserved it for her sinful behavior.  She’s crazy people.”
John Sr. looks at George in the eye and pulls out a club. Several other people pull out clubs. They chased him down and backed him into the brush.  John Jr, Elizabeth, the Reverend and a man she had never seen before about Elizabeth’s age, came over and held him down as John Sr. came up to him quietly and then suddenly without warning as George was about to open his mouth, clubbed him in the face bloodying his nose.  
“The answer is no. Furthermore, Let you be thus accursed from this day forward: You will never take my daughter’s hand. Nor my daughters daughter, nor your son’s sons.  And further still, neither you, nor your sons will come between us and the hands my children and grandchildren take. And no, you will not let your ships ride upon my water nor yours horses on my land or more will come than you see here.  Stay on your own parcel and never let me see you again.”
Judith took Mary under her arm and helped her to the wagon to take her home.  Mary looked back at the Reverend and the young man.  He looked like he could have been one of Henry’s classmates back in England.  She swore she had seen him before.  In a daze, Mary rested lulled by the rumble tumble of the little coach as it went along the trail.  She soon dozed off with fantastic dreams twisting and rethreading the day’s harrowing events and her rescue.  She dreamt of Waylon, Henry, and Michael as well as Margaret and the play she had gone to as a young girl. 
***
