The sun cast long shadows over the stones and trees like wispy poppets stretched still over the ground.
The familiar pattern of bumps told Mary they would soon arrive home.  Mary felt the ominous prospects of a thunderous lecture as low darkening clouds rolled over her head. There were gusts of breeze blowing over and around them. 
When they finally arrived, Mary took Lydia from mom’s arms. Elizabeth looked like she had completely gotten over her limp and walked briskly carrying a basket of clothes for the baby and biscuits for the boys.  John Sr. took the club out and prodded the ground with it like a walking stick as if fancying for a moment that he would take on the look of more senior members of society. John Jr, took the team to water and soon all were inside, shielded from the winds.
“Mary”, Elizabeth started, “I’ve been meaning to speak with you.”
“Yes?”
“Well, I don’t want you to take anything here the wrong way.  You might be upset still but I do want you to hear this because I do greatly feel that you have been delivered just in time from a great worse calamity than what happened today.”
“If you are going to talk about George, do not say another word.”
“Mary, there’s are secrets I’ve not only heard but seen for myself.  Then you will see why I have to burn this dress.”
“Ok, Elizabeth, what are you talking about?”
“I will start with some things you probably already know and then go on from there because this needs to be said from the start and I cannot say what you already know so I would ask your patience so I can get through it all because there is so much.”
“Then do tell it Elizabeth.”
“George is about 37 years old.  He was married once before.”
Mary’s jaw dropped. George had never told her about himself, his family or his past.  As much as she had tried, he had kept himself a clean handsome looking mystery.  It might have even been part of the allure.
“Shall I continue?” Elizabeth asked followed by nods from Mary, her eyes welling up a bit.
“His wife, Lucinda Davenport was with him at Plymouth.  There was a curse at that place and she died.  Some say it was his neglect that killed her although many able-bodied men also died because of the harsh winter there..  He has since tried to date many young girls.”
“That’s not so bad Elizabeth, that happens.”
“It just seems suspect to me Mary.  But that’s not all, he not only kept secrets from you but also his family and tried to keep us away.  He was not honest with us.  The ‘fabric’ he sent us was the old clothes his wife used to wear and he gave us the bad flour which we had to throw out in the field.  He lied about you too, said you tried to seduce him, would show him your legs, was acting strange, and couldn’t tell what you were going on about.  Things about him just didn’t add up and I have a bad feeling he won’t give up.  He keeps slave girls and uses them.”
Mary was fuming.  
“Stop Elizabeth, I, let me leave you. I, I need quiet. You have told me more than I can bear right now.”
Mary’s thoughts were a blur of questions, rage and pain. There were even pains of missing George in between feelings of anger.  What did I do to deserve this?  Did I think it and therefore it was?  She sat on her bedding pile in the corner arguing with herself in her own mind.  I am going mad.  Her face went red and she mumbled incoherently with What..?Why…? and How?  Her mind and body ached.  Her sleep was ruined. Bags went under her eyes.  She held a pillow tightly.  She couldn’t eat and was wasting thin. For days she sat there.  I’ll never trust another man again.  There were horrible thoughts of harming herself, doing away with herself. 
Judith looked woefully through the curtains of her new home in Ipswich.  Lydia was crawling on a blanket in front of her.  Judith placed toys around her, watching her movement, her choices, keeping a note and imagining her future personality.  Her curly hair and rosy cheeks make her the most doll like baby she had ever seen despite the hardships of settling into the wild new land.  She admired her daughter Mary for taking a stand but was also reliving the horrible details.  Mary was withdrawn and she had to do something to help her daughter.  Elizabeth was not doing much better but at least she had gone out on a date last night that ended dreamily.  A man by the name of William Sargent Sr. was thin and wirey.  His frame was bony and he had an honest and plain look about him. He was even more the sensible type and very industrious and resourceful.  He had a wide set of skills that enabled him to do all the work imaginable on a farm.  He had big blue eyes and when he wasn’t intensely focused, he had a wide and cheerful smile with a thick countryside accent.  Judith had a good feeling about him after Elizabeth had spent the last four months dating without anyone making a call on her again. No letters, nothing.  William Sargent wrote her every week.  His writing was simple and plain but to the point compared to other gentry: 

My Dear Elizabeth, How are you this lovely day? I wish you a plentiful increase and comfort in the Lord.  Would you that I see you at the banquet again and take you to meet my family again?  Your mother and father are most kind and it was truly a blessing to see them. May God prosper them in His graceful Hand.   My family is still in Bath but I wish they could meet you.  I have written them telling them of my fortune in finding a fair lady to keep me company.  For our courtship, I have a gift for you which I will bring to your family’s home so they will remember how I have pledged to your care.  If they so approve, I would ask another gift should the right time come.  In devotion to you as I also devote to the Lord as he devoted Himself to the church and kingdom of God.  So may we meet again soon. 
In love, William Sargent.

Elizabeth freely shared her letters with her mother.  Judith smiled and then thought of Mary and woefully looked on as she churned the butter.  Mary had kept her head down and in her work.  When a man came looking for her, Mary would avoid it.  Judith would sometimes turn them away. Mary saw the warning signs much more clearly.  There were many fine men but Mary was inconsolable.  She would go out with them.  They would write her.  She would not answer.  She would not talk to them.  Mary even offered to stay home from the public view.  She stayed home from church and read and watched and fed Lydia.  Thomas and Jacob were growing up like weeds and started to go fishing and hunting with some coaching from their brother John Jr. 
John Sr slammed the door behind him. 
“I just got a letter from John Endecott.  Goodwife Endecott wants Mary to go there to help as a midwife.  He will pay her nineteen pence a day with room, board, washings, one hog and firkin of butter for the week we lose our increase due to her labors here.  Isn’t that great news?!”
John looked to cheer her up but he could see how hard it was to get her to smile. 
“Lift up your head Mary, he’s not going to give us a very fat hog if you look on so dreadfully.” he smiled and chuckled a little then tickled her under the arm like he used to do when she was in her insolently stubborn moods as a tot.  He gave him a tickle back but he was completely immune to it.  She knew better but tried anyway.  “There, that’s better Mary, keep laughing, it’s better medicine than that vinegar you’ve been taking.” he teased.  
“Judy, what am I going to do with both my girls out of the house?” 
Judith looked at her reflection in the water of the pot she just put on.  It would be a long time before it would boil.  There were a few more grays there than last time.  
“I’ll get the boys to do some of the work.  This will be good for them.” replied Judith, “I’ll send a reply.  I’m going to have John Jr. take her up and bring her back. I’ll let Former Governor Endecott know he need not send for her personally.  John, you need to teach Mary how to ride properly side saddle, our wagon needs repair.”
The day came early spring for Mary to go up with her brother John Jr.  She rode behind him wearing safeguards from the splattering mud on the road having learned how to ride side-saddle.  Governor Retired Endecott introduced them to his wife Elizabeth Endecott.  John left Mary at Goodwife Endecott’s side and warned her to keep close by her lest her husband try something nefarious.  Mary prepared herbs, boiled and hung sheets and clothes and stockpiled them against the day of delivery.  When Good Wife Endecott’s day was due, she produced a small baby boy.  John Endecott was present for the whole thing and spoke loquaciously of himself as his son was born.  
“As I have so been blessed by the grace of God to have founded this land of Zion for the deliverance of God’s chosen people, delivered from the temptations of papacy and evils therewith.  As it is just and good that we are all witness to the coming of the Kingdom in our own day, I shall name my son in memory of the prince who lead the Jews from Babylon back to Jerusalem as this was a shadowed form of things that would transpire.  For isn’t England and Rome become too great in their own eyes, lead by vanity like unto the Babylonians with the fine Babylonian garments, fine food and fine treasures?  We are lead from the flesh pots of Egypt and from the riches of Babylon to a new holy land given by the providence of God to those who have heard his voice in the wilderness”
Mary’s ears tired as he continued, speaking of how evil the British were, how the times were getting more wicked with that man at Merry Mount.  How they must stay vigilant against the devil who would come to tempt them and make deals with them to lay traps against the righteous and so on.  Her ears perked as he said what she had waited to hear..
“I shall name him Zerubbabel.”  
He went on some more.  He then heard her name. 
“And blessed are these girls who have come to serve him like the women who served at the feet of Jesus. Martha here has been an instrument in God’s own hands blessing us with a healthy baby boy.”
He erred in her name.  She was taken aback but smiled just the same.  Let it go it is no harm.  came a voice.  She kept thinking this might be his way of making matters worse if anything bad should happen to his son who he seemed intent on pampering like a prince. It was ironic since he decried the sin of Pride upon the royal heads in England. 
“Do you have a word Martha? Prophesy Martha!”...”Prophesy!” were the voices raised.
Mary was a little shocked.  She knew there were subtle differences in prophecy and the speaking heard in church but Mary’s calling was in fact related to such a gift of the Spirit as they saw...something natural and unexplainable as she saw it.  So she let her mouth spew the first things that leaped into her mind.  Her mind was on medical things….
”This baby will be a blessing to you all to be sure.  He shall one day be a great doctor in this land and have a son of his own the same as himself.”  A gasp or two was heard around the room.  Then a few cheers.  Some seemed unsure if they should cheer or not so the sound broke off early. 
The Governor had much family and friends waiting outside after he had covered his wife’s nakedness whom he had brought in.  After Mary had spoke to this crowd, and as there was a moment of pause, he picked back up again. Some stayed for a feast.  Mary didn’t feel hungry.  She didn’t know the Governor as someone who would make a falsehood if more than two people knew it but she also knew she had better work hard for what she was promised in pay.  So she continued to take care of Goodwife Endecott and a couple nights after, John Jr, came just in time.  The baby’s odour was filling the room and she was not about to stay and clean the whole thing.  Before she left, she did the best she could to put the used cloths in a bucket, ready for taking out to wash.  That wasn’t her job after all.  
When Mary arrived home with her pay and new livestock, they all cheered and hugged her and kissed her on the cheek.  Her mood was lifted by this.  Judith broke in, “Even as you travelled back, word has spread that you have worked well for Mr. Endecott.  There are some men who have been employed in the keeping us safe from raiding tribes who have started to grow restless and started to aim their arrows at those who have gone out alone in the woods.  The Narragansett are becoming more uneasy with us.  We’re seeing more wounded come our way.  They will be sending some injured to us.  Thanks to your work we can afford to fix our carts.”
“I’ll do my best mother.”
Late one night, the sound of a muffled man and shuffling in the bushes could be heard in the distance outside Mary’s window.  John Sr, with his excellent ears and instincts got out of his restful snooze that evening and put on his night robe. There in a flaxen raincover for a small cart with  ropes tied to it in sheet bend knots in a makeshift stretcher was a man gagged and biting down in pain.  Mary watched as they came in through the door.  A thin shard of stone tied to a stick broken near the skin, the tip of a native arrow was lodged into his left hip. Mary could see that it would have just missed his kidney but shattered his hip bones. Blood was dripping through the course cloth onto their floor.  They laid him directly onto the floor and ungagged him.  He was still biting and yammering through clenched teeth.  
Mary went to boil a pot of water and threw in some herbs.  She pulled out a box of her natural treasures and opened it.  Inside was a small earthen pot of salve made with Helichrysum and Yarrow and another styptic of goldenseal root powder, white poppy heads, ground fine with the mortar and pestle mixed with the pale, waxy bloom of some berries she had seen the sachems use. 
“Please take it out!” whimpered the man.
Mary knew that this would increase bleeding and cause him to faint.  That never ended well even though it was thought that excess throbbing and inflammation of the wound was a sign of excess humor.  Still, the blood carried the soul so there was already too much blood lost.  There was no sign of poison.  He wouldn’t be alive if there were.  She washed her hands.
Mary looked at him in sympathy but gave no response to his request.  She motioned to the two men who had dragged him in the makeshift bag-like stretcher.  “Hold him down. Put the cloth under his neck and muzzle him, do not gag him, let him bite it.”
She took the cloth and wrung it out over his flesh.  She applied the powder next over the arrow, then the salve and then packed around it with some hen down that she had boiled and dried.  It was extremely absorbent and held the blood in.  He whimpered as she went around barely touching the stick.  She looked at it closely wondering how risky it would be to loosen it.  She couldn’t tourniquet him.  What do I do here?  If only Margaret were here.  Judith watched and helped, passing her a clean dry cloth packed in the cedarwood.  
Mary readied the cloth and slowly pulled at the stick.  If it was red, she’d let it slip back.  What to do?  As she watched, it turned red a little but didn’t gush.  All or nothing!  She quickly pulled the stick out, packed in the down and overlaid more salve.  Judith handed her some thin goat kid skin and she wrapped it around his waist to hold it in place.  
“He’s going to need a sleep elixir so he can sleep comfortably and heal himself.”, she emptied her hands and went to make a drink for him.  She mixed some tincture into some hot water and had him sip it.  
Judith told the men, “Come back to check on him in three days and then we can say more if he stay or go.”
The next night, they took a young boy in. He had wandered off and came home with injuries and had fainted on the way.  Mary had to bind his limb and sew him back.  Elizabeth and William had come to watch and help out.  Mary’s work was starting to draw a crowd as she was becoming well known as a saver of lives and an inspired healer.  Even Cotton Mather started to take notice. 
As there were smallpox outbreaks, there were people whom Mary could not help but if they were injured, she would try.  Mary avoided going into town on account of George but wherever she went, people were saying things after she passed like “There goes the youngest physick of Ipswich”, “Is that Mary Perkins the sister of John Perkins the Quartermaster?”, “Is that Mary the daughter of John Perkins?”, “Is that Mary who was once engaged to George?”, “Didn’t George say she was a witch?” to which people would usually say, “No!, the prince of demons would not cast out demons.” but on one occasion, she heard, “That Mary may heal but even the demons heal their future pawns. She’s the worst witch of Ipswich” to which Mary became afraid.  She remembered the gory scene painted by Margaret and decided to go into town with a scarf around her face from that time on and her neck cloth pulled up as if to ward herself from the stale airs and coughs looking much older than her true age.
Over time, Mary collected and preserved eggs, honey, tree sap, bee propolis, milk, spider webs, milkweed tufts, down, skins, barks, wine, salves and tinctures for her medical preparations. The cinchona bark in particular she found useful as well as the yarrow, goldenseal and opium powder. 
Five days had passed until this one morning, a knock came at the door.  It was hard to tell these days if it was William Sergeant, brother John, father John, Elizabeth or a new patient.  Mary had given up on dating and Elizabeth was going steady with William now.  Mary had a hunch this would be a patient.
Judith got the door with Mary standing behind her.  The older reverend and a man with brassy wavy hair stood there being held up by the reverend’s arm.  “This man came to church for healing, believing he would be healed.  God works in his own ways and for this cause I’m here to bring you a new patient Miss Perkins. I believe you have the Gift of Healing?”
Mary knew the verse in the bible was in Mark.  She pulled out her medicine chest which had been replaced with a bigger box now that she had collected so many more things.  The reverend quoted the verse, “And these signs will accompany those who believe: in my name they will cast out demons; they will speak in new tongues; they will pick up serpents with their hands; and if they drink any deadly poison, it will not hurt them; they will lay their hands on the sick, and they will recover.”
The right pant leg was sticky with blood which had dried like a paint.  Judith took away the cover on a table they reserved for Mary’s operations.  Mary laid him down on the smooth table they had kept covered and cleaned. He was large framed and looked a bit familiar.  He seemed so strong and yet, he almost pulled Mary down with his weight when he tried to seat himself so much that Judith came over to take his other arm.  He was looking dizzy but still there. 
“The...lights are dark.”
Mary could tell he had lost about enough blood to lose his consciousness.  As they laid him down, they both struggled with his weight.  Mary went to grab a shear to cut his pants to inspect his wound.  As she peeled the blood stiffened fabric, it appeared to be a musket wound on one side and a large gelatinous blob of flesh on the exit side.  Mary marveled at the fact he had not passed out sooner.  
Mary felt a spark of infatuation upon undressing him despite the grotesqueness of his wounds so much that she held her feelings in check as she went to work, sometimes losing track of what to get next stuck in mid-thought.  Judith noticed something about this and took over.  
Judith had to debride the frayed skin.  Judith undressed him until he was completely nude from the waist down.  Mary watched in awe as she had seldom seen the sex of a man around her age.  His vulnerability and masculinity overwhelmed her.  Mary watched on in a trance as she handed mother the things she asked for.  Judith washed some of the dirt away but made use of the styptic powder in great quantities.  There was none left so she sent Mary away to make more.  
Mary went into the fields, thinking about what she saw and decided to block it from her mind.  She picked up more yarrow along the way too and decided to add some of the stalk whites to the powder.  
When she came back, the Reverend had left and the man was covered and snoring away.  His eyelashes long over large eyelids looked like a sleeping angel.  His brassy hair shone in a gold from the setting sunlight.  His face was very pale.  His coat was left on the chair. His pants were wadded on the floor.  
“Mary, I should warn you.  The work of a Physick is serious and sacred.  You must not let your emotions come between you and someone’s life. “
“Mother, you should know that … I’ve decided the same thing.”
“I don’t know about this poor gentleman.  He seems to have a steady but weakened heart.”, sighed Judith.
“What do you know about him?” inquired Mary.
“He’s a captain.  He’s only recently come here.”
The next day, Mary made breakfast of pork, eggs and bread and some milk to wash it down.  As she strode across the room with the food on a board, she sees him, sitting up and awake.  
“Well, you are looking better today.”
He grabbed some of the bread and ate it quickly and swallowed down the milk.  “I’m sorry Miss Perkins, but I am famished.”
“I have to check your bandages ….Captain.”
“Captain Bradbury….   But you can call me Thomas if you’re going to do that.”
Mary blushed red.  As she uncovered him, she could see that the blood did not let up much and that he’d need to get his outer wrappings replaced to keep it enskinned. She couldn’t help but notice that he had a very large engorged penis and droopy balls.  He seemed to blush. 
“There’s nothing wrong with that.  I just have to relieve myself.”
Mary brought over a pot, quietly and trying to to express anything.  She went away and came back to empty it out.  She went to work again on his bandage.  There again, his manhood stood at full mast and it brushed her arm. She pulled back.  “It’s just morning. I’m sorry.”  Mary felt bizarre but then went back to changing his outer bandage.  She was kind and gentle as possible in her mind.  Judith was busy tending Lydia.  Her thoughts deep down were bouncing around underneath a calm and gentle exterior.  
“Are you thirsty Captain?”
“Yes Miss.”
She went to get him some tea.  He sipped it slowly.  She sat quietly, waiting on him.  Cooking and washing and occasionally seeing Judith and Lydia wander in.  
Mary focused on her work all day, washing, cleaning, milking, churning and gathering medicines.  She would check on Captain Bradbury, finding him asleep. As darkness came, she tucked herself in bed, keeping an eye on him and exhausted, fell deep into sleep.  In her sleep, she slid around in her bed, restless, yearning.  She gently moaned in her sleep as she dreamt of him, embracing her, touching her face, she dreamt of him naked and imagining herself inspecting him closely, admiring his build.  She saw herself naked with him rubbing against him and eventually pulled into herself dreaming of his large manhood entering her gently, slowly, ecstatically and building into a rhythmic and steady lift and tightly clutched embrace.  Her body ached for his love.  She ached to feel the breeze of warmth from his lips against her ear, telling her things that she mixed from her past romance on board.  Just knowing he was a captain made her feel that much more love struck and obsessed with him.  His image pressed into her mind as she imagined his body pressing into hers.  She woke up in a slick which she slid her soft legs around in. She held a pillow tightly and waking, she was in a blush and daze of imagined sex and embarrassment, confusion, pride and thrill. He humbled her and she loved it. Her whole person was fluttering about the home that morning.  Judith noticed and went into quandary.  She was worried she might be hurt again. She wanted Mary to have a fair chance at having real suitors.  Judith felt a bit ashamed of herself.  She did not wait until marriage before she had been broken into love. She wasn’t sure she could tell Mary how to conduct herself without coming off as hypocritical. Judith did seek in her mind however to put Mary back into sensibility and that night, she wrote back some of her earlier suitors and decided to have a talk with Mary. 
“You’re going to have company soon and I want you to bathe yourself.  I will take over from here for your nursing.”
That day, as Judith tended Captain Bradbury, he told Judith how beautiful he was but that he was still deeply sad.  He told Judith how much she and Mary looked alike and Judith had to blush, only remembering how gray she was when she last looked.  He asked when she would be back, what she was doing.  Judith could tell, he was in love too.  It broke her heart to do what she did at this point.  She decided then and there to let love take its course but to only get involved when she had to.  Judith did not sense hostility in Thomas.  He was a real gentleman and not cheap either.  
Later that day, the Reverend popped in again. 
“Goodwife Perkins, thank you for your care of the sick.  Blessings upon your home for this work.  I know the Lord delights in the care of others and your diligence.  Gentleman Bradbury here is not just an agent but a noble man who is the great nephew of Sir Gorges.  He has agreed to pay you fifty pounds.”
Judith’s jaw dropped.  It was more than she had ever accepted for this work.  She felt guilty and refused it three times.  Captain Bradbury spoke up. 
“I must insist or I will forever feel ungrateful to you and this would break my heart.  You wouldn’t do that would you?”
Judith couldn’t refuse at that point and took a handful of silver coins and a note for the rest. This was rare indeed since most of the time she was offered tobacco which she had to resell.  Beaver skins, sheep, goats and pigs were nice when she could receive those but this was raw and simple remuneration which she could immediately take to trade and buy whatever she wished.  Keeping her goldlust in check, she humbly thanked him and proceeded to serve supper and ale to them. 
Judith cared for the Captain this way for several days, taking turns with Mary whenever Mary went out.  While Mary sometimes showed she was enjoying herself.  She would wake up thinking of Thomas. 
One night, when Mary came in, Captain Thomas was wakeful and wearing new breeches and asked Mary, “How was your day today?  I miss your tender care.”
“It was fine, I had a lot of fun.  Oh, I’m sorry, I really don’t want to go on about it seeing how you are.  Please don’t ask me.”
“But I love to see you happy.  I wish there was something more I could do to make you smile even more.  Are you happy?”
“Yes, I believe so.  I wish I could be here more but they … Must I say this.  “, she sighed, “I cannot fraternize with my patients.”
Captain Thomas’ face showed a sudden despair but then lightened again. 
“Well, if you help me up, I won’t fraternize with you.  I just want to see you since you...helped me so many times, feel hope, joy again.  I haven’t been able to feel my leg but I want to try and walk.”
Mary moved over to him to help him up.  He held onto her.  For a moment, the passion caught them both.  He steadied himself but embraced her thigh to thigh and breast to breast. She felt how warm he was.  He felt softer but muscled in an almost familiar way.  She felt his intimate touch again against her and her mind flashed back to her dream.  He noticed she couldn’t pull away so he stumbled a little to break the embrace.  He blushed brightly to where she could see it.  She could tell now that he was feeling for her.  
She fought herself in her mind.  Frustrated in her heart like a dove amongst the thorns.  
She helped him take a few steps towards the chair so he could catch on.  He was stronger now but still heavy even though he was not as tall or broad as the man she would never speak of anymore.  Captain Thomas was not heavyweight, just dense with muscles that felt like a sack of cannonballs.  He had finally made it.  She smiled tearfully for him and they laughed together.  Captain Thomas was very happy to have made progress.
“Well, I should be back to my old self in no time!”
The next day, a suitor arrived at the door to pick Mary up.  Judith reluctantly set her out.  That morning, Thomas didn’t wake up.  He was dry and hot.  He was getting a fever and becoming drowsy and incoherent.  Judith had to help him bring it down.  The weather was only getting warmer so Judith went to find snow and cold water.  She got some slippery elm and gave it to him.  Fortunately, his bleeding had long stopped. John Sr had come back from patrolling and training with his troop of men trying to defend the outposts against attacks and raids.  Judith talked with him in hushed tones about her concern.
When Mary came home, she saw him there, sleeping, extra blankets piled on and shivering.  She got mother.  “What’s wrong with him?”
“He’s come down with a fever Mary.”
The next day, Captain Thomas laid still in his be and as father went back out to patrol,  Judith looked at Mary’s eyes and noticed there were tears streaming.  He wasn’t drinking or eating like he used to. “He might have a bad air and might have to go to the pest house.  This is not good news for us.” Judith left the room to tend to Lydia. 
Mary felt this might be something else.  She got a cloth soaked in cool water and laid it all over him.  She bared his chest and put it on his chest which she had not seen before.  It was beautifully shaped with light tufts but he was looking thinner and ribbed.  She started to sob and laid her face over his bare chest. “I can’t lose you.  I don’t want payment.  I’d give you everything I had if you would just come back.”  She noticed he was not responding other than an occasional sleepy moan.  She sobbed more.  Judith peeked out at them, feeling an instinct to break up this violation of her protocols but instead forbeared of it.  
Mary’s sobbing stopped and she composed herself, sniffling repeatedly until her face was dry.  Her lips were cracked.  Her eyes red.  Then she said it. “I… I… I have to say it. I can’t take it any longer.  I, I am sorely afraid.  I did this to you.  I’m most miserable about it.  More than ever….”, a sudden dejavous of Waylon came up.  This was worst.  With Waylon, it was a surprise, a sudden shock, it was over then she mourned.  This was waiting to mourn.  It was harder, more difficult and worst of all, she had held back so much more of her feelings for him.  After everything that happened in the short weeks together.  This was her greatest fear coming true all over again.  She fought back more tears.  “I wish...we could be together.  You have to know the truth.”, she paused and then said forcefully, seriously and wholeheartedly, “I love you.”.  The wave of sadness started to shake her.  She could feel a breeze blowing through the window.  Sunlight broke through the clouds again and shone on him.  He smiled. 
She heard Judith who to Mary might have just been feeling the breeze, sniffling but little did she know that Judith was touched by what she had just seen.  Mary’s face went red and then white and she draped one blanket back over Captain Bradbury and grabbed a handful of hand tools for work.  
That evening, Mary came in the room.  Captain Bradbury was looking much better and awake and smiled.  Mary blushed and went about making him food and being dutiful.  
The next morning, the Reverend came by to check on him.  Captain Bradbury had woke up in a sweat and Judith had served him breakfast, checked on his now scabby leg and gave him a new bandage.  Mary slept in. He asked Judith to help him get up.  Captain Bradbury’s strength had come back even more than he himself had realized and he stood straight up and took one step, then another as easily as if he had just woke up with nothing of any trouble at all.  
The Reverend looked on, joyfully and in shock and enthusiastically declared, “Praise God, Bless you Goodwife Perkins and bless Miss Mary Perkins for your miracle work.  You are truly the balm of peace and healing in God’s own hands.”
Judith humbly smiles. “Praise God and blessings upon you Good Reverend and pastor of the flock.  Without you, we would all have been lost.”
The reverend smiled at this and Judith decided not to let this turn into a gushy exchange, so with that Judith left the room handing Captain Thomas his breeches and shirt to replace his gown with.  
“Mary’s sleeping but I’ll let her know.”  
After being called back, they said goodbyes and Captain Bradbury and the Reverend had left and given her a remaining payment.  Judith watched their profiles shrink into the horizon as they left waving cordially.  Judith smiled to herself, happy that he had recovered and also hopeful he would return for her daughter.  She went to her own box and pulled some florals together and made Mary a homemade perfume out of rose, violet, lilac and honeysuckle dampening it with acorn nut oil and the tiniest pinch of cloves.  When she was finishing, Mary stumbled around yawning and finding her way to the front room where her patient lay.  She turned around and saw Judith there working. 
“Where is he?”
“He recovered.  I don’t know what you did but maybe the fever ran its course and he appears to have broken the fever and found his old strength again.”
Mary gave a somber glance back at her.  
“More wounded will come Mary. You did a wonderful thing for him.”
“Will he come back?”
“He didn’t say anything.  He left me with enough money however to buy a second team and cart and maybe a new barn.”

Salem was bustling town. John Endicott’s estate had a couple gables, two stories and finely cut timbers. Inside, his wife Elizabeth was cradling her newborn baby boy. John was looking through his curtains at the approach of George Carr. After George had been seated, they got down to business.
“George, the villagers everywhere tell me what a fine craftsman you are.”
“I just give them what they ask of me, God willing.”
“I would like to commission a small project for you.”
“What are your terms?”
“We’ll get to that in a bit.  First I want to ask you how you’re able to fend off all those ladies after you. Have you chosen a girl to suit you yet?”
“I’m still getting over the last one I chose Sir.”
“Who was she? She would have to be a very foolish girl to lose a man like you.”
“Miss Mary Bradbury.”
John Endicott’s mouth dropped a little and his head stirred a bit. 
“She’s a real beauty and a good midwife if I may say so. A little absent minded but she didn’t seem like the foolish type.”
“Oh, she’s really something else. Her parents and friends kept getting in the way of us. The gossips. Can’t trust ‘em. I also think Mary’s mother is a witch.  What’s worse, I think Mary is following in those footsteps.”
“Who were these friends? I hope not those Hutchinson congregants.”
“Well, it’s even worse. She is friends with Margaret Jones. Margaret was probably the secret love affair of Thomas Morton when he landed here.”
John Endicott’s face waxed pensive as if flooded by memories, his smile weighed by them, he went into a scowl of ferocity. 
“I should have never let her in this house. You should really be proud of yourself letting that one go. Thomas Morton was criminal of complete moral abandonment. I detest him more than I do all the papacy of our motherland. He was a most grievous man to have to endure the debaucheries and scandals of. He was a witch of the worst kind too.”
“I know it.”
“There are many eligible girls in Salem. You would be well favoured to pick one of them. Stay clear of the odd ones George and you’ll do fine.”
“I appreciate your guidance Sir.”
“Let’s go over these terms of yours after a good meal. I’m sure you’re starved having to go over all that. Chin up, you will find a suitable wife in due time. After this project, I know you will. I need a vessel to cross the North River. With more mouths to feed, I need to expand.”
***
At the Perkins home in Ipswich, a wounded lady showed up.  She had a sore head injury that was unusual and unseen before.  Mary spent time working but her heart wasn’t into it.  Judith noticing her lack of improvement took over for her.  Mary decided to run errands and buy more supplies but in her heart, she knew she was really looking for Captain Bradbury.
As she was about, she saw George, with an entourage of other men loitering and watching the ladies enter and leave.  George caught a glimpse of Mary who wasn’t looking at him at that time.  Mary casually moved out of his view and made a dash in hopes of losing him.  She went to the fields to forage for berries for a few hours and then went back to the store, checking to see if they had left.  She took her time with the traders, watching, making a lot of choices and changing her mind. 
“You, lady, sure are a fickle one.  Would you tell me now, is it the white cloth or the blue one?”
“I need to see if I can get the white cloth but if not, I’ll get the blue one, excuse me a moment while I count my coins.”
“You have coins?  Trust me, you’ll get whatever you want for a few shillings.”
“But I may only have a few pence, please be patient with me Good Sirs, go about your business while I check my purse.”
She left with the white cloth...the one she wanted all along.  She walked around the green as cautiously as she could being careful to avoid George’s path.   Horses and carts came and went.  It was a busy day but there was no sign of Captain Bradbury.  She dared not leave the safety of the village since there was much more danger.  She felt despondent that should could not venture out further without getting into serious trouble with father at home, let alone mother!
Losing hope, she walks back.  Behind her back, Captain Bradbury exited his coach and into the store she was just inside.  
The days were rainy and warmer.  Mary went out every day after chores to conduct some business away.  She even offered to go out to the water side to pick clams which was somewhat dangerous since there were more encounters with the “savages” there.  While she knew there was a real danger, she was not fond of hearing them referred to as “savages”.   While she was picking clams, she had picked enough bushels to make stew for weeks using the milk and butter she had back home.  The patients she had loved them.  
Mary was starting to think the Captain was probably dating other ladies.  Not many were as familiar with him as he was a newcomer and also an agent.  They just heard he was given a lot of land by his great uncle in a place they were calling Colchester but which had a more native name to the indian tribes.  
Another day, they had a knock at the door.  Mary hoped it would be Thomas somehow, she could hear a young man’s voice.  This man had an entire leg amputated and bleeding.  Mary tied a band around his leg as he was deliriously being held up by one other strong man.   Mary tried to get him to lay down.  His limbs just doubled and collapsed as they let go of an arm to the point that same man had to rush to break his fall.  His heartbeat was weak and his face pale blue. His breathing was weak.  He eventually stopped, his heart fading and his body grew cold and lifeless.  He looked like she felt inside.  It was bad timing.  She couldn’t help but think back of Henry and others she had seen pass away.  They all shook their heads.  The strong man bowed his head in prayer as the others followed. 
“May this son of yours have his soul carried away to thy paradise in heaven Our Dear Lord. May his family find comfort…”
The prayer continued sorrowfully on and became mourning.  His family would have to receive notice of his passing that same day.  They covered his face with his hat and took him to the burial ground and called his family to meet them there.  He was buried without a box and given a stone that his father inscribed on with a mason’s chisel. 
Several more men arrived that week.  One of them drowned.  Also hopeless.  His wife had followed him wailing for him.  Mary’s success seemed to have been diluted by so many hopeless cases that she barely felt the same zeal and confidence to heal that she had before.  She was starting to realize that her own broken heart was teaching her this lesson.  It sapped her intuition, strength, love for her work.  She was realizing more with each passing day how much she really did love Captain Bradbury.  She prayed for his return.  She wore mother’s perfume every day and set charms about to call him back.  
“He’s not going to come back to visit, is he, mother.” 
“Don’t give up on love so easily as we do for the living who are already dead.”
This was the first time Mary heard Judith acknowledge it as such but they had both known by now that the other knew about Mary’s love.  No words were needed.  Their intuition told them enough strongly enough by their very motions. 
Mary left to put on clam chowder on the fire in her cauldron. 
Knock knock knock.
Mary just about dropped her spoon.  She didn’t want to really mean what she had just said a few moments before.  
Mary walked cautiously towards the door.  Judith signaled to Mary to stay put by the fire and that she would get it.  Judith took Lydia in one tired arm. Lydia had decided to wet her diaper-cloth right then and there.  Judith groaned in disbelief.  Picking up her own apron, she held it up under her daughter already becoming quite heavy.  Lydia was a bit late in her training there.  Judith finally reached the door and pulled it open.  John Sr. could be heard out back sawing wood and nailing.  Thomas and Jacob were playing loudly.  There stood Captain Bradbury. 
“Madam.”
“Captain, what a nice surprise to see you again.”, said Judith stealthily. “You’re looking magnificent!”.  Captain Bradbury was dressed very nicely.  He paused a little. “I’m not here as a patient now.”
“I’ve finally got myself to my work again.  My hands have been busy with a project.  I have been working around home but I have a little shallop on the river on a dock and no one to adventure on it with.  I’m an orphan son you know, just hoping to make a few good friends.   But who better to invite than a friend who cared for me when I was in my direst need.”
Judith saw through his wordy banter and nodded quickly to move him along.  
“I would like to treat Mary to a ride on my little craft.” said Captain Thomas not knowing the more devious subtlety in his speech.  
“Mary has chores to finish, but after that she’ll be ready.”
“Mother? I can finish all those later..”
“Oh go on, be back before dark kids.”, she teased, smirking.  “And do you have an escort young man?”
“I do madam, I am bringing with me some help who have agreed to help me steer and float my shallop over the river.  I would be taking her on a tour.”
Mary’s eyes lit up and she was leaving the room and came back in a pretty skirt ruffled out in such little time, Judith had wondered if Mary had pulled something unusual out of her usual bag of tricks. 
Mary gave Judith a hug, thinking she might have caused this auspicious event to happen.
Judith broke the mood a little with “Wouldn’t you like to stay for a supper first? Mary, your clam chowder is boiling to a froth, put out the fire would you?”
Mary forgetting that she did in fact have a cooking chore in progress settled back into serving supper, in her pretty blue dress, looking a bit awkward as she did. 
Captain Thomas wore a deep blue captain’s coat with brassy adornments, buttons and embellishments.  
Judith pulled some cooling bread off a breadboard next to the hearth as Mary ladled soup into thick glazed clay bowls.  
Captain Thomas ate more daintily than either of them had remembered.  Mary and Judith passed gleams and smiles as they admired his polished look, his strong set jaw and brassy brown hair.  A pink colors was back in his cheeks and face.  He looked happy and contented himself.  John Sr and her brothers came in.  “I smell food!”
“You smell a diaper.”, came Judith’s wit, so quick as to make Captain Bradbury hold back his soup and gasp through his nose.  He held his hand over his face and smiled, chuckling breaking up some of the stiffness in his dress.  
“Judy, you’re going to have to let me make soup for you some time then.”, winked John Sr. 
Both of them had decades of practice with their own banter.  Mary knew all the retorts that would come next between the two of them to the point her response was less mirthful but no one seemed to notice it.  
After cleaning up a couple bowls of soup, Captain Bradbury said, “Your family, is most remarkable in your hospitality.  You have done well for yourself Sergeant Perkins.”  
John Sr. smiled wryly and blinked at the flattery and gave a modest “Thank you for saying so.  We work hard and that’s all we claim here.”
“You sound like a man of good letters and proper speech.  Are you a writer?”
“I am a clerk if that counts as a writer.” 
“Oh yes indeed Sir, not everyone gets to perform that duty without some knowledge of the most formal of letters.  I would look to you for guidance there.  I have a love of learning myself.  My grandmother ran a dame school. ”
“We have, in all truth, done the same, how remarkable a similarity there.  We feel it is everyone’s right to know proper speech and the writing that the speech has come from so we can all do well and good no matter wherever English folk may be.  Mary here even enjoys studying some Latin from the great antiquities.” replied John
“Is that so Sergeant Perkins, you are a family of great diligence, learning and culture and that is better than all wealth to me.  Such wealth is heavenly wealth to me.  God is a God of truth after all.  How do you find the time to become such great hosts and such scholars in this adventurous place?  Do not feel obliged Good Sir.  I am relishing this soup.  I can see how Mary’s reputation is well deserved in medicine but I never knew should could cook to a man’s delight.”
Mary could see they were done and got up to clear the table.  Judith sat Mary down and ask the boys to do this chore as Mary was in her nice clothes.  They got up and Thomas gave a heartfelt handshake to John Sr.  “So joyous an occasion to see you all again. Blessings upon you. We’ll be back before dusk.” said Thomas.  His loquacious words seemingly came from a place of sincerity.  
Captain Thomas took Mary’s hand and they rode his coach out to his dock.   Captain Thomas put his arm around Mary in a genteel caring manner as if to repay her for her caring demeanor.  Mary smiled at him, failing to be modest about her feelings but trying again she looked out, occasionally peeking at his beautiful visage and romanticizing their time together.  
Captain Thomas’s dock was not far from the beach.  The water was gently waving. He took her by the hand and gave her seat on board.  The little barge was new and built with care.  After he untied the shallop, he ran and leapt aboard, using an oar and a staff to take them out to sea. 
“Mary, I heard you.  I know I heard you say that you love me.  It has pounded on my head every day since I left and those words, are unusual to me.  But then I realized something.  I can’t describe it other than that it consumes all that has ever been said on love.  I was surprised.  I didn’t know you felt….the same as I did...which can only mean one thing.  I know, that I have also, this whole time, fallen completely in love with you.  I love you Mary.  I knew it wasn’t anything else.  At first I didn’t know if it was my shock or medicines making me see angels, but those things went away but the angel that was you still stood there. Do you, still love me?”
Mary looked into his eyes, tearful, smiling. “Of course. I could never take that back.”
“Can I see you again?”
“Yes.”, she nodded smiling, coyly. 
He looked into her eyes and reached to hold her hand.  Another hand gently to her arm and then softly to the back.  He leaned close as she closed her eyes slightly and stilled herself to be taken by his kiss.  Nothing doubting, she felt him embrace her, touching her lips with his and holding there. It was a thrill of electricity and the warmth of love passionately overtaking her.  Breathing slowly and deeply she held onto him as their warm kiss opened into a caressing one of the mouth. It felt almost like the sex itself she had in dreams. Her passion opened into thoughts of her love for him extending to the day she might be his, forever. 
They broke at the same time, their minds carefree but in unison, as if one in mind. He held his man-sized gentle fingers to her face and brushed her cheeks gently with fingers that felt softer than they looked. His touch was so gentle for being so firm in build.  She hadn’t noticed the tears on her cheeks.  It was the most wonderful feeling.  The salty breeze of the ocean blew around them, warm and friendly.  The sun was setting over the hills in the distance with a majestic gown of purples and oranges and magentas streaming over the vast expanse above.  The shallop drifted calmly.  The sun still to touch the horizon, he quietly but dutifully oared to shore and took Mary home before it would set.  The sun had just disappeared below the horizon as they pulled up.  The sky had grown into a soft kaleidoscope of pastelled hues set in the fading blue sky.
Mary was overwhelmed with joy. She slept but awoke again to thoughts of him. Her loneliness ached and she sought to see him again. 
That Friday, he came back for her and they sat around her home.  He was helping her around the house.  Late in the evening, they chatted around Mary’s fire. 
“Do you have any stories about your youth Captain Bradbury?”
“Just a few.  My father raised me until I was old enough to work.  I went to school until they had nothing left for me to read.  My mother passed away when I was two. My uncle was the Archbishop of Canterbury, John Whitgift, my mother’s brother.  He loved reading and read Latin to me but I never quite picked it up.  I learned a few quips here and there.  He gave books to me as a child, sad that his sister had passed so early after my birth.  You know, he taught a lot of famous people including Sir Francis Bacon, the Viscount of St. Alban.  He tutored him and his brother Andrew.  Of course Francis Bacon is quite the man of the court with his brilliant mind.  You probably already know my great uncle, Sir Ferdinando Gorges, Knight of the province of Maine, sent me.  Actually, he’s adopted me by his marriage to my aunt Anne, Lady Anne Bell. ”
“How unusual.  Hold it there Tom.  Did you say the ‘Viscount of St. Alban’?”
“Yes, why?”
“He gave me a book when my brother Henry died when I was a young girl, just before we came over here.  I used to live in HIlmorton...and...that would explain what the initials F.B. are.  All this time, I had no clue.  I’ve heard of him but I didn’t know he visited me!”
“Hilmorton is where Count Bacon’s family was from.”
“Then I’m sure of it.  You wouldn’t know why he might give someone a box they couldn’t open would you?”
“I have no idea.  He’s eccentric.  You never know what he might do next.”
“And you said something about Ferdinando Gorges.  You wouldn’t know a Thomas Morton would you?”
“I know of him.  He’s part of that educated thespian circle with William Shakespeare and Francis Bacon.  They are all good friends.  I’ve been to drinking parties with them, back when my foolishness was at it’s peak.  I would see him at school or visiting.  It’s sad what’s happened to him but I have to stay quiet on the matter.  I’ve been given a good deal of land to take care of and we don’t want the likes of those in Boston taking it away.”
“My best friend Margaret Jones was friends with Thomas Morton.”
“They can be an odd bunch.  Francis Bacon is very secretive in his writings of plays and of his novels.  He’s considered one of the secret elders among those of the Order of the Rosy Cross.  He knew it was a good piece of wool cover for the eyes of the uninitiated but Francis ran with the idea and actually formed a group.  Thomas wanted to reform the church but found so many deaf ears that he started completely from scratch.  He’s really a good man but an odd one.   So is Thomas Browne who you might have heard of.  He’s a very smart one too. Me, I’m just a humble captain trying to make my own way. I’m all alone here but that’s what I’m used to.”
“There’s so much I want to tell you Tom.”
“Then tell me after we get married.”, Thomas reached behind him and pulled out a silk cloth.  
“Mary, will you marry me?”
“Yes..When do you choose?”
“This May.  Then let’s swear it by fasting your hand to mine and sealing it what a kiss.. Do you have a clean kerchief or cloth?”  Mary took a ribbon out of her hair.  Thomas took out his kerchief.  They kissed and exchanged the cloth items and wore them as bracelets.  He took her hand in hand, arm in arm. Never speaking harshly.  He reminded her of her father’s genteel nature and yet he also reminder her of Waylon who she still missed.  
They waited a month and soon the day came when they got married before the Reverend with guests by invitation.  The Captain made sure no one else interrupted or crashed the wedding.  She wore a beautiful white veil, a long white wedding dress.  He wore his uniform and scabbard with sword.  The wedding flew by in the blink of an eye. 
The organ breaks into majestically chorded love music as they walk hand in hand out the door.  The flowers and apple blossoms were blooming, cherry blossoms could be seen strewing their own petals everywhere.  Nature Herself blessed their union.  
Mary gave final hugs to John Sr. and Judith and Elizabeth and William there. Elizabeth poked William in the ribs and as Mary threw her bouquet, Elizabeth caught it.  While it seemed an ordinary wedding, it was blessed with the song of birds, the petals of blossoms and the happiness naturally filled the air.
Thomas helped Mary into his coach and they rode over the trails through the shady groves to his home.  Thomas had help prepare a feast.  He ordered them to leave kindly, paying them as they went out the door to which they bowed in gratitude.  Thomas had lit candles as the sky grew dimmer.  
Mary and Thomas knelt together on their wedding bed.  Captain Bradbury was a meticulous planner and prepared every detail for this night. He took her into his arms and kissed her softly. While he was plenty strong, his gentleness reassured Mary that everything was going to be ok for her from here out.
She woke up to him, lying on his back, she trawled a soft warm finger across his chest.  He shivered a little and opened his eyes.  He smiled at her.  His smile was clean and beautiful and showed his strong jaw.  She smiled back at him looking at him lovingly.  After more affectionate gazes and sweet nothings, they went about looking around his place.  
Mary opened her chest and found that Judith have given her the little box among her books, she also had the vial Margaret gave her and a lot of other keepsakes for Michael her grandfather, and Henry, her deceased brother.  
“Tom, I have something to show you.”, she pulled out the box with the crest.  
Tom’s eyes widened and he stuttered at first: “So you, you and your mother are, part of his Order?”
Mary answered curious herself, “I guess so.  I don’t really know what that is.  I didn’t know he was Francis Bacon until you told me.”
Thomas pointed at the box: “That’s is the Bacon family crest.  What’s in it?”
Mary looked at it closer, “I can’t open it until the right time.  It doesn’t sound like anything is in there. Maybe it’s another note.”
“You’re wise to not touch it unless you have to.  What you have there is like Pandora’s Box. It can release great powers of protection or harm depending on how it’s used.  don’t use it, unless you have to”, Tom repeated. 
While Mary felt relieved to know with more certainty that this box had importance, her curiosity was now even greater. 
