Mary was cleaning up the new home that Tom had put up.
It was a definite bachelor’s home and she was going to tidy it up the same way her mother did.  It was cozy and solid.  Captain Bradbury was not the neatest of men and Mary expected that.  Captain Bradbury was also very studious, reading in the evenings by candle, often going to the candle makers to get more and so Mary started her hobby of reading back up.  There weren’t so many mouths to feed and children to watch so Mary felt a lot of ease for the time being. There were chores taking care of the horses, the cows, sheep and chickens and his small garden and fields.  He took care of most of that work.  Mary was happy to get plenty of butter from the cow and had constant cooking and cleaning during the day. But by the time night came, they settled in, drank some ale, ate dinner, read books and settled in.
Tom went to town with her and they looked at books, hats, dresses, boots and farming tools together. He took her to eat some beef pies.  Two hot pies came out of the oven at the tavern.  Mary took one whiff and started to feel nauseated.  She felt a tingle in her belly.  
“Did you cook this pie Sir?”, Tom yelled at the servant boy who served it.
“Tom, the pie is ok, it’s just me.”
“Sorry.” he yelled at the boys who shrugged and went back to the hearth fires. He quickly turned back to Mary.
“What’s has fallen over you?”
“Tom, I think we’re going to have a baby!”
Tom’s eyes gleamed and mouth opened in surprise, his mind raced and hands went through his hair in amazement at the prospect of his having a son.  He felt very pleased that he would soon be starting his family and continuing his family’s legacy. 
Out of the ongoing excitement, out of the blue, a familiar name was overheard. Two men were conversing.
“Reverend Williams is in regular trouble.  Did you hear they went to look for him and he had escaped?”
“In January? Wasn’t that the same day as that wretched blizzard that came through? How did he do it?”
“Apparently, those savages who he’s friends with picked him up and took him to their camp in hiding.”
“I can’t believe how bad this war is getting.  They’re going to be calling up the rest of us if this doesn’t end soon.”
“With all these arguments, it’s no wonder that God’s displeasure has been shown by riling up these savages against us.”
“It’s more than that Good Sir, it’s the abuses they’ve received at the hands of our …” (he fell to a whisper). 
“Well, they’re starting to give out the names.  I currently now live in Andover.”
“I think they don’t want to give the Indians the idea that it’s still their land.”
“That’s why Williams got the boot, he was against taking it outright and giving it our name because they were taking offense to that.”
“They’re not producing anything, we’re the ones being taxed, we have to pay, we should be able to claim it by name like we would back in England.”
“So be it then.  I pray this war ends soon so we’ll know what to tell….” (and he broke back into a whisper again).
Their eavesdropping was interrupted and they realized their food had gotten cold. After finishing their meal, Tom took Mary home. He was soon cleaning house.
As the fall came, Mary’s morning sickness was in full swing.  Judith came over with John Jr. to help her as John Jr. was well respected by the tribe peoples along the way.  His ability to speak with them improved.  John Sr was starting to feel his age and had to keep watch over the children who were busy playing with wood scraps from the sawing table John Sr was using to build more shelter from.  
“Mother!” exclaimed Mary as Judith came over her threshold throwing her skirts through.  
“Mary, my beautiful daughter, I’m so pleased.  I got the news.  So, when do you think the baby will arrive?”  
“I guess around March?”
“The house cleaning has improved. I hope you didn’t have to clean.”
“No–”
“How is the good captain? I mean, my new son in marriage?”
“He’s doing well.  He just started teaching letters at the school.”
“Mary, now that harvest is over, we should find a camp betwixt our homes to teach at until the snows come and your progression with child grows late.  The Indian girls have a great aptitude for our trade since they live close to our Mother.  Let’s bring some of the village girls with us and see who has been granted the gifts of administering physick.”
“I don’t have any notion yet of whereabouts we would meet Mother.”
“I don’t mean half way dear, I mean close to you but outside your home. We need a secluded place and the Indian camp is a perfect place.  Roger Williams assures me they will be very peaceful to us and we will be with the squaws and medicine men there who protect them.  Their social order is not as primitive as so many of us think.”
“That would be fine if you know the camp.”
“Let’s go for a walk then.  The sky is overcast but the rain is not yet.”
When they arrived at the camp, Mary looked around and saw beautifully painted skins and all kinds of bone jewelry.  A woman came up.
“Mary, this is the chief’s wife. Squaw Mercy Wren”
“Mercy, this is Mary.”
“Good day to you Mary.” she spoke in near perfect English. 
Taken aback Mary responded in kind, “Good day to you Mercy.”
Mary gave a curtsey and raised a hand in their home greeting. Mercy took them into a straw tube-like home.  Inside the scent of roasted meats, herbs and the hanging of jewelry full of their memories outlined the well appointed hut.  They took invitation to stay a night. 
Thomas announced Mary’s dame school in church that week as an advanced exchange course in the sharing of language and culture between the old peoples and the colonists.  The week after, Mary and Judith were teaching and initiating the women in the exchange of herb lore.  
Mary wrote to Margaret.  

Dear Margaret,

I’m sending this with my brother in hopes it will reach you quickly.  We are here again hosting the Dame School.  I am expecting a baby this year.  Tom is most wonderful to me.  Have you seen your husband Thomas?  I hope he’s doing ok.  Please come visit us.  God bless you and preserve you.

Truly yours,

Mary Bradbury
***
As the weeks went on, some of the older women from church were brought along.  There was Jane Hawkins, a middle aged lady with grey hair and a loose bonnet.  Judith was thinking to avoid too much discussion of anything that might seem too miraculous so she went into the skill most demanded at the time, that being the art of a midwife and the practice of physic.
Just before class, Margaret Jones showed up.  
“Margaret!” exclaimed Mary.  Margaret sat next to her and they started chatting.  Judith cleared her throat and they straightened up to listen, somehow, ever since the fire incident, both of them were keen to pay close attention to Judith.
“I’ll now answer any questions you have been holding onto” prompted Judith as she was in the middle of a large camp of women.
“What do you recommend for morning sickness?” asked Goodwife Colby. 
“One of the remedies I have used myself for morning sickness and nausea has been chamomile and meadowsweet.”, answered Judith.
“Do you recommend raspberry leaf or yarrow before delivery time as a tonic to help contraction?”, asked Jane.
“Either one or both work fine.“
“What about Mandrake?”
“I would not.  It can severely disrupt the baby’s growth.  They used to use it in small doses for calming and obtaining some benefit for the pain but I would not dare use it.  Too many tragedies have happened there.  Anyone else?”
Silence fell on the group and Judith went dismissed them.
***
A man in a black mask sat in a damp cave.  A slave sat on one side of him. About three older ladies in their fifties sat in front of him.  “I have heard your complaints and I have decided to act.  Anne has been troublesome.  She threatens to expose your arts as well as disrupt our effort to create a truly separate church from the Great Whore which is England.  If she speaks against work, how will we accomplish our Great Work? The reason I have brought you here is to work with you.  As Saul went to Endor, so do I come to you.  We are the oldest group of midwives in the new world.  You have served us in both the old land and this new land.  Therefore, we must organize again like we did before. Mistress of the Night, bring me my blade.”, spoke the man.
The slave girl brought out a sharp knife and a bowl full of offerings from a tablet where it laid before a dark rounded column.  Flowers, mandrakes, tobacco and bones sat in it.
“Stretch forth your left hands.”
The three women stretched out their pale wrinkled arms, their hands covered in liver spots and blemishes and scars. 
“Do you swear to me by your blood.”, he asked muffled under the mask.
“I do.” spake the hooded ladies in unison.
He stretched his hand forth to cut their arms one by one.  As each one bled, the slave girl collected the blood in the bowl. 
He took the bowl, went off a ways for a few minutes and came back with the bowl which was now fuller.  He passed it around and then said, “Drink!”
They drank in turn, their unbound grey hairs fell out of their hoods as they did so, slurping and cooing with delight as they did. 
“Jane Hawkins, where are you?”
“Here Master.”
“As you were first to drink of me and your sisters, and have reported to me the workings of the other newcomers who practice the physic here, I wish to bless and honor you for your diligence.  You have set the example and therefore you will lead in my absence and I give you the ancient name of Hecate, Queen of the Night.”
“Hecate, Bethuliah reports that Mary Dyer is with child.  Play the part of a familist and zealot to gain Anne Hutchinson’s trust.  Go to her to offer your services as midwife.  Give to her the prescription you have perfected as a physic that will cause her child to transform into the image of Prince Stolas who will steal her child as it is born, that the Reverends will see her dissent for what it is.  This work will please our Lord who seeks to keep us at our stations in this new kingdom.”
“Our wills are one, so will I go and do as you have said.” replied Jane now relishing in her new identity.
“Dorothy Talbye?”
“I will speak to you of your errand at our next meeting and if you do it well, I will give you and your companion both names and a standing in this our secret council of physic.”
“Now let us feast and celebrate amongst ourselves.”
The three women danced around the black phallic rounded obelisk-like stone, caressing themselves and preparing themselves to be pleasurable to their master.
Jane Hawkins went murmuring to herself  Anne, the nerve of her going to my neighbors to take away my employ and livelihood. She walked to her cauldron where she was preparing the oil of mandrakes, skimming the oils with a fibrous wad soaked with a waxy grease that would pick up the oil and leave the water.  She painstakingly took the wad to exude and press the oils out into a handmade vial made from a lacquered stalk.  From that day, she followed Anne and Mary around, befriending the young ladies and asking Anne if she could be of assistance as a midwife to her friend, Mary Dyer.  Anne cordially accepted with the encouragement she had felt she was receiving.
The next day, she walked all the way to Mary Dyer’s home. 
“Good morning it is Goodwife Dyer!”
“Why good morning Goodwife Hawkins. Welcome to my home. Come in. Come in.” answered a beautiful youthful looking girl with light heather hair, rosy red cheeks complete with bubbly countenance to match her demeanor.  She had the warm blush of her pregnancy in her.  A big beautiful white hat was tied about her face framing it along with the sunshine coming in. 
“Please, call me Jane my dear little girl. And my, you are certainly getting big now.  I take it a strong girl like you has no troubles carrying.”
“If only that were true dear Jane.  My back aches so very much now.”
“Oh, I’m so very sorry to hear that.  As a mother and grandmother, I must confess that this is more common than I would wish.  But, I have been graced with a listening ear and keen memory and remember the ladies of my day having a long kept secret of a wonderful herbal remedy that could bring much relief.”
“Oh, do you practice physic then?”, asked Mary inquisitively.
“Of course dear, I’ve practiced physic for many years and all thanks to the Lord’s providence in giving us herbs for our maladies if only we would look and trust upon them with the guidance of his sweet Spirit.”
“Could you procure it for me?”
“I have been so busy with my duty in my practice but I just helped another lady in my care just a week ago.  She couldn’t bear the strong taste of it.  Poor dear.  I should have some in my pouch here.  Goodwife Dyer, we must believe together that this can work.  Do you believe?”
“Believe …”, Mary Dyer started questioningly. Jane picked up on it and completed the thought.
“Believe in the power of my Art that I share with you this day?” she asked sternly.
“Yes, I believe.” replied Mary Dyer feeling a little uncomfortable.
“We should sit down and make it with tea then.”, Jane said halfway between a smile and black and yellow toothed grin and gestured her to the table.
Jane Hawkins and Mary Dyer sat down.  Mary lit the fire, filled a small pot with water and put it over the fire to boil and then carefully poured the tea into hand painted cups she had reserved for her favorite guests.  
“It goes down much easier with rosemary and mint, do you have some?” spoke Jane as she noticed some rosemary and mint hanging.
“I hear rosemary is very good.  Here it is.”, said Mary Dyer as she handed over the drying rosemary and mint sprigs which had been hanging up for a long time so that it was already dusty.
Jane took the oil out of her pouch and poured some drops of it in her water.  She took the dry dusty brittle leaves in her hand and pulverised them into a dust and spilled a half portion into each cup.
Mary Dyer gave it a sniff and then a sip and exclaimed: “It doesn’t taste bad to me.”
Jane sipped her tea, “I only gave you a little. Here, keep the whole vial.  What I gave you now will only alleviate some of the pain.  Take more as you need it.”
“Oh thank you my dear Jane!” and she gave the middle aged lady a big smile and then opened her arms so as to embrace her in a hug.  “You’re just like a mother to me.”
Jane smiled wryly back out of her view but returned the embrace full force with all subtleness. 
One a brisk windy October morning, word came by a boy of about twelve years running to Mary Bradbury’s home saying in his breathlessness that Anne Hutchinson had requested her presence as a midwife to help in the delivery of Mary Dyer’s baby which had given them some surprise by showing signs several months early.  Mary Bradbury had been invited by Anne Hutchinson to attend, having heard of her skills through Reverend Roger Williams.
Thomas took Mary by coach and then returned late to teach his classes.  There in their home, Mary was taken by Anne Hutchinson’s hand, passing a crowd of strangers except few, to where Mary Dyer was.  There she saw Jane Hawkins who smiled up at her.  Mary was breathing heavily and exposed over rags which had been soaked with the water breaking.  Anne and Jane both took an arm of Mary Dyer. Another woman pushed in behind Mary to get a glimpse of them. Mary Dyer labored all day and into the night.  Regular squirming and shaking and moaning lasted a good part of the day.  She went in and out of tiredness of labor aching through each step, barely making progress in her opening.  
Finally, late in the evening, a bloody appendage that looked like a claw poked out.  Mary’s head began to get light.  Another girl stepped forward and spoke to Jane, “Can I get  you more clothes?”
“No need sister, we need more space, everyone except you, you and you please step away!” shouted Jane.  She pointed to Anne and the girl who had offered the cloths.  That was John Endicott’s servant girl she had seen before.  Mary Bradbury could see there was more than enough help being offered to Goodwife Dyer but was concerned at how pale and sullen she looked compared to her usual upbeat nature.  Mary closed the door behind the five of them.
Jane gave Mary Dyer another sip of tea on a rag she had soaked.  “There there, this shall help.”  She looked down again and saw that the baby was breech presented. “Aye, it was as I knew, this babe is coming hiplings first.”, Jane carefully rotated the body.  “It’s in distress.”
At least she’s been taught how to use the herbs. thought Mary but something down deep pricked her like a splinter.  She was worried the baby may have lost the limb during the pushing.  Jane was rough but an older woman who had probably seen many births.  The screaming and dribbles of blood poured onto the floor.  The room then started to shake. Mary Dyer was thrashing on the bed with the pain. Anne comforted her and held onto her. A stench came out of the room that was thick.   It seemed a sick green gray light filled the room as the dusk seemed to loom on beyond its hour.  All of a sudden, the sound of vomiting and heaving filled the main hall.  Mary covered her nose with several handkerchiefs scented with the wildflowers and peeked out to see people’s faces buried in cloth from the stench, there was vomit on the floor, purging as people walked out of the room and children were even clutching their midsections and flailing around.  Other babies were wailing and crying.  She closed the door to look inside again.
The rest of infant had come out.  It was limp, barely blush, mostly pale and starting to blotch with liver mortis.  Mary Bradbury thought she saw an occasional twitch from the mass of flesh that laid there.  The baby had no head but had a face with bulging eyes, a strange hooked nose and an exposed circle of gumline and stray teeth for a mouth with stretched lips setting in between two shoulders where a neck would be. The ears stood up on the sides of the shoulders. There were bony protrusions of shoulder behind the eyes where the brow would be. The spine protruded out of the back as if it were a third arm. Two cavities leading to lungs protruded along the spine exposed through the skin.  Under the spine was the baby’s belly and her organ and a tail stuck out.  It was scaly skinned. The arms stretched straight down. Attached below the ribs were the legs, shorter but stiffened out so that the feet met the hands. Her hands and feet looked like skin covering bone to the point they resembled owl’s feet and her hands like wings.  The cord seemed almost a tail.  With further pushing, Mary expelled the last of it from her womb.  Mary Bradbury, lightheaded now left the room while the other girl looked at it leaving her alone with Anne and Jane and the exhausted mother.  Soon after she closed the door, she heard Goodwife Dyer’s voice shriek in anguish.  Voices of comfort could be heard from Anne and Jane.  
Mary woke up in the middle of the Dyer home.  She was starting to feel the pain herself.  In a fog, she saw an even larger crowd assembled among other women who had passed out. William Dyer was asking the people cleaning the floor to leave.  Others heard this and left along with them.  Mary stumbled out of the home to see Thomas there waiting for her.  He was looking pale himself. 
“Let’s leave this place,”, he said and then took Mary by the hand, holding her as she stumbled along towards the cart. 
***
It was a sunny day in Salem. John Endicott and George Carr were watching the ship George had built for him cross the North River. He thought to himself, “I can do even better. The Caribbean would be a good place to start, send some of my boys over there and trade the excess and set up a plantation there.” He spoke aloud, “You’ve done a fine job there.” Just as he was glorying in the view of his ownings, a black smoke rose straight up from the vessel. George watched in horror too. He knew he might have used too much oil in the polish but in his wiles he responded quickly. Knowing full well that John often bought up supplies from the Perkins and the Bradburys to George’s disdain, his scapegoat couldn’t be clearer,“That witch! I knew I should have stopped you from buying bewitched oil from those crafty folks.” John bought it.
“You’re right, I should have listened. I’ll never buy from them again. I’m afraid I have no choice but to cut my loss and pay you percents from the portions I got from the previous trips.”
“But that cost me..”
“Cost both of us, we have to split the loss. For your loss, I’ll throw in my goat corral.”
George was still fuming but stopped himself from attacking Mr. Endicott. He knew he would lose that fight. It was customary to split losses on joint ventures like these. He had only supplied the shipping and labor and none of the other expenses or supplies. “Mary told me once she could spark fire with a breath.”
“I don’t have anything substantial to go on. You take care of her, I’ll get to the damage mitigation here.” With that, John stomped off cursing under his breathe and pulling his face away from George.
***
By January, Mary was feeling more and more nervous.  Thomas was becoming too helpful making Mary feel a little frustrated. 
“Can I get you some water?”
“How about some milk?”
Mary shook her head. 
“Sorry, what would you like?”
“Just relax Tommy”, she teased giving half a smile. “Ok, just help me up so I can walk to the pot.  I like the warmth there.  From there I’ll make myself some lemon and mint tea.”
“So have you picked a name if it’s going to be a girl yet?”
“I told you it’s not a girl but if it is, I’ll name her Isabella or after my mother.”
“I like Judith, it’s a good bible name.” answered Tom.
“Are you sure you want Wymond?  I already told you it sounds too close to Waylon,” said Mary.
“That’s my grandfather’s name and I want to remember him here.  Who knows but if someday, someone won’t look for my father and will not know which of these Bradbury men they were?”
“I will name him Wymond.  Your grandfather might be more apt to watch over him this way. It’s different enough, and I do like it.  It’s a special name.  I didn’t know of it until I met you.”
Tom smiled and put his arm around Mary and put his hand gently over her belly. “I love you Mary my dear wife and I already know you love me.” he smiled again.
Mary looked up at him which prompted him to kiss her.  He gave her a gentle kiss and held her in his arms. 
The lion rains of March persisted to the last day.  Mary walked about, taking care of herself.  She wondered why did didn’t ask for a midwife.  Then the next day, she heard the knock and it was her father and mother standing there in the rain.  
“Hellos. Elizabeth is watching the kids for us.”, said Judith bustling in.  John sauntered in right after her, taking his hat off and setting it on the table. 
They stayed over night and by the wee hours of that morning, a tired Judith awoke to hear Mary tossing and groaning with the sound of labor pains and contractions.  They had arrived just in time if not a little late in Mary’s eyes.
“Mary, your baby!”
“I know mother!”
“Breathe my daughter.  I’ll ready everything!”
Judith went to work preparing everything.  “Where do you keep your salves and herbs?”
“In the box mother, you remember don’t you!”
“Where’s the box!?”
“It’s by my bed!”
“Silly me!”
Judith prepared clean cloths and made Thomas and John leave the room.  It wouldn’t be good luck.  Judith had learned a lot from the Indian women as she had watched them deliver.   Judith had set down a few charms at her bedside after she arrived that these women gave her to give for Mary’s baby. Judith had Mary drink water and teas despite how full she felt. 
The sun had not even risen yet, dawn’s faint light just barely coming out and Mary’s water had already broke.  There were Indian women who came that morning.  Thomas had gone out to gather them.  They shook a rattle and held her hand and massaged her where she was most comfortable being massaged.  The contractions came even quicker and more evenly and the baby was crowning.  Judith coached Mary’s pushing but in rhythm.  Mary’s pushing came more easily and soon Judith was holding a shoulder and he was twisting his way slightly out on his own.  He was pink and sleepy looking.  By the time Mary pushed him out, he was kicking frantically and started to yawn.  Judith was surprised but all of a sudden, she touched him and he cried out loud enough for the whole farm to hear.  Thomas could be heard hollering in joy along with John Senior.  They ran in. 
“You are the new proud father of a son.”, Judith drew out as Thomas tried to get a better view.  Mary held her baby in her arms rocking him. 
“Wymond.” she held her baby close.  She repeated his name several times.  Everyone looked into his eyes and he stared back in a fresh amazement Mary had seen a few times before but this was special.  She studied his face amazed at the likeness he had of them both.  John Senior put an arm around his wife and muttered a “good job” to her kissing her on the forehead.  Thomas looked a little taken back by this show for a second.  He went right back to holding onto his wife as she held their son.  He followed suit and held Mary.  Judith went off to find some more water to wash the up after the baby with.  There was a great flood to clean up it seemed.  
Mary took a long rest and Thomas got a new cradle out for her and sat there watching him letting Mary rest a bit.  She needed to heal but before long, Wymond was already crying in hunger.  Thomas handed him back and Mary was soon nursing her suckling boy for the first time.  
“Hecate, your work was careless but work as I have planned. The leak you gave to the young lass has started to spread like wildfire against Anne Hutchinson and Mary Dyer and the others who have disrupted our plans.”
“It was delicious to watch it Master.  They will soon be exhuming the body to view it in it’s horror again thanks to my connection.  She was all too easy and eager to be lead about.”
“I have an even greater source of concern.  I fear that while the Bradburys are playing the part of dutiful helpful citizen and are forthcoming of admission about their relationship with Gorges, they are in a position to undermine us.  Mary knows what you did and are well connected.  They could take any side.”
“So what shall we do?”
“I want to bring her to our side but we have to remove the influences around her. Who can we find that is close to Mary?  Maybe they can be persuaded to help us.”
“Margaret Jones is one of Mary’s best friends, between Goodwife Perkins, and the two of them, they could easily thwart us or expose us since they are also organized. Our only advantage is that they do not know o f us. “
“Can Margaret be swayed?”
“No, she is more loyal to Mary than her own husband even though both of them have dissented.”
“Hrm.  This might work in our favor.  Those who cannot be swayed are of strong opinion and easy to get a rise out of.  We have to conduct an operation to discredit her and remove her.  I need you to use your best poison on her neighbor’s cattle.  I then want you to start a little mischief between them so that they will contend with her.  If she practices the art of the physical bodies, we can spoil her remedies so that they make her patients ill.  Go in and visit her.  Taking Margaret out will serve as a good warning to Mary.”
“What if instead we use the third plot in the Book of Power against our competitors where Margaret is found with a remedy that appears to poison her and that remedy is planted on Mary and we tip them to investigate Mary?”
“That would not work.  Mary is far too perceptive.  You might as well just poison her outright with the prescription that gives the appearance of the pox.  She has cut you off from her completely because of your carelessness in this last execution.  Her familiars keep watch and inform her should you come near.  Do not be troubled, I will clean up after your carelessness and soon we’ll have Anne Hutchinson and Mary Dyer taken out while keeping Mary Bradbury distracted.  There is much to be gained from this plot if you do it well this time. Use my first plan and come back when you’ve finished it.”
“Where is Dorothy?”
“I have given her a task.  I’m afraid we will no longer be seeing her.  The task I have given her will likely put her in the hands of the magistrates,” his grin widened. “I don’t think she’ll be coming back.”
The next week, Dorothy Talbye was arrested on charges of murdering her own child.  Jane Hawkins came back to the masked man.  
“So that is the task you gave her?”
“Do not trouble over her.  She was a risk I could no longer afford.  Have you done the task I’ve given you?”
“I have, the cattle are sick and her neighbors are quarrelling with her now.”
“I have the exact manual we can use to shut down our distractors and our competitors.  We cannot let them increase in our land or they will destroy our way of life.  I have here a book on how to detect witches from Matthew Hopkins.  His techniques for discovering the witch will be easy to implicate anyone we wish to.”, the man changed his voice into a kind sweet sounding old man: “My beloved saints, we owe it to God and His Country to mete out His Fair Punishments to those who would fight against the establishment of His Kingdom on earth.  To be the hand of God, we must not hold back to mete them to these charlatans who so richly merit His Punishment”.  
Jane Hawkins laughed loudly at his perfect inflections and poise of a righteous God fearing Reverend.
Boston - June 1648
The next day, Margaret Jones was arrested and placed in jail.  As she was chained up, John Endecott entered the room and pulled out a flexible stick covered in burrs and sharp items stuck into it. John Endecott tortured her while she was prisoner to extract information. After many confessions and much bleeding, sweat and tears and repeat questions he asked her: 
“Can Mary start a fire without flint and only her words?”
“Yes. I saw it with my own eyes.”
John brought the indictments to the General Court that afternoon but kept that secret to himself. 
William Pychon was the presiding judge of the General Court:
“Will the accused step forth and give her name?”
“Margaret Jones”
“I will now read the charges against Margaret Jones standing here in this court this day all of which may constitute counts towards the greater and most deviant crime of witchcraft, a crime so great that it can destroy entire kingdoms. The accused is found to have the malignant touch that has caused many persons, men, women and children alike, whom she stroked or touched with any affection of displeasure, to be taken with deafness, vomiting, violent pains, or sickness. How do you plea Margaret Jones?”
Loud ruckus filled the room. Voices of “Guilty!”, “Do right and confess it!”, “Witch!”, “Tramp of the Devil!” with such screeching as to mimic the minions of hell themselves. Some also yelled innocent, among which was Mary. 
“Silence! I mean Order! Order or you will soon find your SELF on the stand!” bellowed the judge. The commotion continued but faded down.
“How does the accused plea!?”
“Innocent!  I am wholly innocent of touching anyone ….except as they beckon me ... to apply healing salve. They are impatient and their complaints too difficult for my treatment I confess but I do not intend any malignancy or wish any further pain or harm!”
More noise filled the room as she went on.  Judge Pychon stood up and this time hollered at the court and motioned for his deputies.
“ORDER!” This time the room went to a deafening silence. At that point, 
Increase Nowell held in his hands the book of Matthew Hopkins, The Discovery of Witches. John Endecott occasionally whispered in his ear.  Increase would then show Judge Pychon the passages containing the list of accusations.  The court’s test was the same as the books and if the evidence found her guilty of all these, then she would be guilty.  The men and women she treated came forth and showed forth sores that remained on their skin.  As Mary watched, something didn’t feel right about it but she was bound herself to not speak.  She knew Margaret could not be spared without exposing her entire group.  Her heart ached deeply.  Margaret gave Mary the things she needed to know that gave her such success in the arts of a physic. 
“You are accused of practicing physic with poisonous medicines. How do you plea?”
“I am innocent your Honor. With God as my witness, these are harmless. Nothing more than licorice and anise!”
“So you admit it that you make medicines that are ineffectual.”
“No, …”
“But you said they were just licorice and anise and you pretense these as medicines and do nothing.”
“Yes”
“So you defraud people?”
“No!”
“Either you are defrauding people with ineffective medicine or you are making medicines that have effects.”
“Yes, they have effects.””
“So now you have tried to defraud this court and have reversed your statement!”
“That is true Margaret. As a business owner myself, I have seen fraud. Will the plaintiff for this indictment come to present testimony?”
A man stepped forward, he was questioned a couple times with almost the same questions answering the same every time.  “Did Margaret Jones give you medicine?” 
“Yes”
“Did it make you sick?”
“Yes”
“Did she say what was in the medicine?”
“Licorice and”
“For a second time, who is Margaret Jones and did she give you medicine?”
“Yes”
“Did you give this Good man medicine?”
“Yes”
“That is enough evidence for that charge. Moving on.”
“But…”
“Margaret Jones, I’m the magistrate here, If you do not obey, you will be found guilty on all charges by default to the court for your misconduct.  There is already evidence enough to convict you of witchcraft.  It is in your interest to get through the rest of the charges if you would tip the scales in your favor Madam Jones.”
His suddenly kind tone made him sound sincerely impartial but she could tell he was manipulating the perception of the court. 
“You are accused of malediction and curses towards those who do not use your physic that they will not heal and this has also been found self-evident by this man’s neighbor.”
Margaret recalled telling the plaintiff’s neighbor that her medicine would help him which he flatly refused. She never told him he would never recover but only that if he wanted to recover, he should earnestly try her physic. She recalled having been successful with others. The court brought in the neighbor and he complained that no treatment would ever work ever since he heard her curse him.  She wasn’t sure why she was the object of these perjurers and false witnesses.  Their anger towards her seemed unjustified.  Mary however felt that this was payback to her since she herself was untouchable, the best they could do is destroy her friends and family. Margaret noticed now that he didn’t even ask for her plea. The evidence for the checklist they used was biased.  There was no examination or recourse to defend against it.  She was being tried by a merchant not a lawyer like those in England.  Winthrop was a politician.  Not a judge of legal talent but Margaret saw something sinister in all the whisperings on the bench by now and she was about to show them some real trouble. 
Mary was concerned for Margaret.  Mary knew they were getting to her and that Margaret would not be able to pull off anything without making it worse for herself.  The questioning got worse.  That she then was able to foretell things and have secret knowledge that could only be obtained by the support of devils. Then they tore her clothes off and inspected her using pins, picked at her skin and after they picked it, they used it as evidence saying it was a teat.  They said she had been caught feeding her familiar for which they asked her their names.  They brought in several cats and mousers and had each of them slain to watch her reaction. The stripped her again and probed her in most vile ways, excusing themselves as being on a physic’s errand. 
As Margaret had been in prison, they had brought her cellmates out against her who ratted on her for having children come to visit her.  Curious children she tried to talk to would take interest but her cellmate used this in a testimony they no doubt coerced from her.  Since Margaret was often watching children, she knew a lot of them and many of them wanted to know where she had disappeared to.  They made veiled threats at the children and this broke Margaret’s temper.  
“YOU ARE ALL DEMONS BEARING FALSE WITNESS! IT IS YOU WHO ARE IN LEAGUE WITH THE DEVIL! IT IS YOU WHO ARE GOING TO BURN IN FIRE AND BRIMSTONE!”
Mary’s heart sunk.  She stared at the floor. 
“You are hereby sentenced to death!”
Mary was sure something was skipped.  They didn’t bother to read guilt or use jury or witness but were taking her out to be executed in short time.  Margaret was yelling and screaming, crying along the way.  She started to cast a spell that expressed Heaven’s own disdain.  
She was taken out by cart on Lecture Day to a hill they now called Gallows Hill and there, she stared at them, bitterly, tears and indignation in her eyes.  If they started to speak or pronounce on her she would rail.  The executioner put the rope around her neck.  She looked for her husband but he was gone.  The children looked up at her with blank marble eyes.  She was brought up to the platform and stared silently and the whole group stood in silence as clouds swirled above and the rope was placed on her neck.  Her hands were bound.  She struggled hopelessly.  The executioner tightened the noose and then pushed her off like one would with a child on a swing but with a level of force that brought her back to the platform so that the executioner had to push her bound body away again.  It was then that her neck made a pop and then broke into a shape elongated like that of a swan and her eyes burst open and bloodshot, teeth clenched in a fixed expression of horror with the rope hugging her jaw and her face turning a sick purple.  The whole field of sky started clouding over as Margaret’s own eyes, heavenward gazing, clouded over and dried out.  Children screamed in the background.  The magistrates however gave each other a nod and a “job well done” look.  John Winthrop, bookish as ever simply followed behind, his mouth turned down but walking as if duty bound and determined to do the world’s justice.  His expression seemed to be that of sympathy until Margaret broke.  His face was still of disgust, with the convictions of his own making to come to peaceful terms with himself. 
Mary watched the clouds above.
“Storm approaches!” cried one of the ladies as the crowd continued to stare and mumble as the drizzles and winds picked up their paces.
A frigid cold wind burst in on the June summer scene as unusual as a sudden intrusion of winter.   Winds blew at them to the point hats took flight and trees creaked.  Everyone including Mary took to their own feet, carts and saddles for a ride home.  Thomas was dumbstruck and tears started to drip off each cheek as he witnessed the worst injustice in his life that day.  Even though he was not a stranger to tragedies and Mary neither, his heart was shearing and shredding itself over the sight of that day.  Nightmares plagued him for weeks, wondering to himself what he could have done to spare Mary’s dearest and oldest friend in the colony.
The storm was reported as far north as Connecticut where trees had collapsed and even came to the notice of John Winthrop.  It was such a powerful storm so as to cause many structures to break, animals to go free and vessels on water to pound at the docks and banks on shore.  No one in Boston could forget that day.  It was a fluke that they were even in town that week. Mary had the feeling of an even darker cloud hover around her.  This book, this life destroyed, a portent of worse to come.  From that day forward, Mary’s distrust and public image awareness grew intensely in her mind and she realized, this was now a very real and dangerous situation with all their lives at stake. 
