It was just after the vernal equinox at the Perkin’s home on Manning Neck, when the illnesses of cold like influenza and hypothermia would give way to the illnesses of the heat like allergies and heat exhaustion.  John and Judith were feeling the effects of their age and planned expediently for their deaths which Judith had predicted would arrive in the year.  Judith took her husband to the Ipswich county court house to record his last will. 
Last Will and Testament of John Perkins Sr. 
On this 28th of the first month called March, 1654. I, John Perkins the Elder of Ipswich being at this time sick and weak in body yet through the mercy and goodness of the Lord retaining my understanding and memory: do thus dispose of and bequeath my temporal estate as followeth: first I do give and bequeath unto my eldest son John Perkins (1), a foal of my young mare being new with foal; if it please the Lord she foaled it well also I give and bequeath to my son John’s two sons John and Abraham to each of them one of my yearling heifers: also I give and bequeath to my son Thomas Perkins (2) one cow and one heifer also I give and bequeath to his son John Perkins one ewe to be delivered for his use at the next shearing time; also I do give and bequeath to my daughter Elizabeth Sargeant (3) one cow and an heifer to be to her and her children after her decease as it may please ye Lord they may increase the profits or increase to be equally divided amongst the said children also I do give to my daughter Mary Bradbury (4) one cow and one heifer or a young steer to remain to her and to her children in their increase or profits as it shall please the Lord to bless them and to be equally divided to the children: also I do give and bequeath to my daughter Lydia Bennett (5) one cow and one heifer or steer to be equally divided to her children in their increase and profits after her decease: I doe also give unto my grandchild Thomas Bradbury one ewe to be set apart for his use at ye next shearing time: also I do give and bequeath unto my son Jacob Perkins (6) my dwelling house together with all the out-housing, and all my lands of one kind and other together with all improvements thereupon to be his in full possession and according to a former covenant, after the decease of my wife and not before and so to remain to him and to his heirs forever: all the rest of my estate of one kind and other I doe wholly leave to my deare wife Judith Perkins appointing and ordaining my said wife the sole executrix of this my Last Will and Testament desiring my said wife to dispose of the cattle above mentioned according to her discretion as they shall prosper: steers or heifers as also to dispose of some of the increase or some of the increase of the sheep to the children of my son Thomas and of my three daughters at the discretion of my said wife and this I do ordain as my Last Will and Testament subscribed with mine own hand this twenty-eighth day of the first month  1654:
His Mark
John Y. Perkins
Witness: William Bartholomew, Thomas Harris.
Proved in Ipswich Court 26:7:1653 by the Witnesses  

***
It was a cool September, the autumnal equinox when John Perkins passed, a sign Judith took for both a life well lived and a sign for her own departure.  Judith sent word through her neighbors in Ipswich for the burial of her husband and sent word to her children.  They arrived throughout the day household by household to find Judith sick in her bed. 
The women and children approached her to listen to her. Mary’s son Thomas was prodded to go along with them being thirteen still.  In addition to Wymond who was now seventeen years of age, their second child was Judith who looked more like a younger version of Mary and a year younger than Wymond.  Then came the third child Thomas, who was named in the will and named after his father (and incidentally Mary’s brother) and thirteen years old as said before.  Then the fourth child was Mary, named after mother accordingly and age twelve. Fifth was Jane named after Captain Bradbury’s sister and age nine, Sixth was Jacob, age seven. Seventh was William after Thomas uncle age five, Eighth was Elizabeth age three and named for both Captain Bradbury’s mother and Mary’s sister, and then John, named for Mary’s father and brother and only five months old and seemingly quiet for Mary compared to her other children.
“We’re so saddened about father, we knew he was weak with age but in our hope, we were taken by surprise.”
“The Lord has taken him to a new post and calling.  He’ll be the guardian of the worthy among our posterity in spirit as will I soon.”
“Mother, you must not talk that way.”
“Now, cough– Listen here.  Elizabeth, Mary, Lydia, come close. I trust you will carry on our tradition. I have something for each of you. Each of you princesses. “Elizabeth, you are the eldest and therefore, I will give you the secrets of the hag.”, Judith handed her a diary with several pages torn out of it and handed her a spindle whorl with a Hwicce emblem.  
“Mary, I give you the mother’s secret, you have the most children of the three of my daughters, so I give you my receipt book and my notes on the herbs”, Judith handed her another book, a stirring stick and the little box. “You will also need this some day.”
“Lydia, I give you my almanac and the notes in there on gardening.”, Judith handed her the book and a broom.
“Let me see my grandchildren.” as Judith nodded in John Jr’s direction.
Each of her grandchildren took Judith’s hand and kissed it. She attempted to hug them but was starting to cough too much.  Mary’s son Wymond who was seventeen now went up to her and she stopped him for a moment.
“Wymond, you’re a grown man already, you’ll soon have a son of your own and a grandson he will give you who will have a very upright and honorable man to take the place of those dishonest men who now sit on the judgement seat. He shall have a daughter who has the same gifts that your mother has.”
Mary kept these words to heart and wrote them in her own diary.  
***
By the next morning, Judith had passed and everyone wept sorely for her.  Elizabeth was heartbroken and wailed loudly and fainted.  Her husband William calmed her down and took her by the hand. When Mary had seen the will, she saw that Thomas was the only child John Sr. had mentioned.  He was only thirteen yet named very specifically.  Mary knew how much Thomas liked to spin and weave wonderful fabrics together and that he would likely never marry or give her children. Thomas had an eye for the other boys of the village which she tried to keep hidden since there were many who would taunt him for it.  She was also surprised that her father had also known.  Maybe Judith was already keenly aware of it and had let John Sr. in on it.
They buried Judith next to her husband and had a stone cut for her grave.  They went to the church register and delivered the dates of their deaths for each of them during the Sunday service.  They returned to the courthouse where an officer returned to the Perkins house with them and oversaw them taking the property willed to each of them. Jacob left his things there and planned his move into the home his father left him. The three sisters split up the kettles, dishes and pots with the three wives of their brothers who were Sarah Perkins, daughter of Robert Pike, Phebe Perkins, daughter of Zaccheus Gould and Elizabeth Perkins daughter of Thomas Lovell.
Captain Bradbury and Mary took their nine children back with them.  Thomas Jr. lead his ewe with a look of sheer delight on his countenance.  He had visited his grandparents with enthusiasm in the past and cheerfully accepted their needed chores.  Mary was very happy for him.  Wymond and Judith were also happy with their time with her.  Mary held and looked at baby John in her arms.  He was fast asleep, breathing deeply into his swaddling looking very content.
***
Salisbury, Massachusetts 1654
Thomas Bradbury Jr. aka “Tommy” rode to school with Mary, Jane and Jacob to school every day with their father, once Captain, now Schoolmaster Bradbury or Master Bradbury as the school children were wont to call him.  The air was nippy and the mornings nearing to first frost. While this was not normally the case, Master Bradbury took over the school and Dame School all at once but keeping some of the curriculum that belong to Mary out of the lessons and teaching both the boys and the girls.  Wymond and Judith were busy working while William and the younger ones stayed at home with mother.  
Master Bradbury broke the tedium of class by organizing some recesses as he saw fit and as reward for quiet and he started timing these to no more than half an hour.  The building was small and had benches instead of desks.  It served as a small meeting house on the Lord’s day.  There was a fireplace at one end and all the children had to bring a bundle of sticks while Master Bradbury would bring in a short log.  Since there was no bell on the building, he kept one of his own there when it came time to bring the children in.   
Mary and Jane were popular girls at school, they wore simple but clean new clothes and their status as the daughters of the school master were well known.  Jacob, or “Jake” was a mischievous and rowdy boy, often requiring his father’s full attention and sometimes receiving the worst of the punishments. Jake’s attention seeking was pronounced.  Tommy, on the other hand was very shy, preferring to spend hours studying, even studying things he didn’t have to for his own amusement.  He had earned some admiration from his father for it in the beginning but after a while it started to concern him.  The boys his age took to talking about him behind his back and observed him out of curiosity. Tommy more than anything wanted to fit in and tried to play with the kids but they would tease him about his walk and his speech and were jealous of him for what seemed like special treatment from father. 
***
After about three hours, the classroom was finally warm with both the heat of the sun and fireplace.  Master Bradbury had just given them a timed quiz and announced the time-up.  After the children turned in their work, he dismissed them for a recess.  Tommy left the building last.  
Outside, one boy, Robby, a boy one year young was talking to Frederick, “Freddy” about Tommy.  
“Tommy sounds like a sissy.  Your heard him?  ‘I don’t know father.’”, Robby imitated his soft voice.  
“He’s a real odd one.  Wouldn’t even look over here when I waved at him.”
They watched him peeling the bark off a stick.
The bell rang and Robby and Frederick ran in first and sat down on the bench but spaced themselves so Tommy couldn’t take his seat.  When the schoolmaster came in, everyone was seated except Tommy. 
“Tommy please have a seat!”, said his father sternly. 
Tommy saw that he was blocked but couldn’t get the words out to ask them to move over or to explain they wouldn’t let him. 
“could you please move over?”
Finally schoolmaster Bradbury looked over at the boys and they quickly moved over to let him in, grinning smugly over themselves.
They continued to tease him, sometimes taking his books off the bench and dropping them. When Tommy sat closer to father, (Thomas Sr couldn’t hear him well enough) they took to poking him, and flicking his ears. 
“Look at those big dumb ears on Tommy.”, Freddy said his name in an oafish tone and whispered.  
***
Headmaster Bradbury saw this as something that would continue.  While he couldn’t keep constant watch on Tommy, he disciplined Robby and Freddy by sitting them in the corner as he taught the rest of the boys their math, history, hymns, prayers and writing.  Each day, they had to read something either out of the new King James Holy Bible, Anne Bradstreet’s poems from The Tenth Muse Lately Sprung Up in America or Fasciculus Chemicus by Arthur Dee. The boys soon waited until recess to tease him.  If Tommy spoke, they ridicule him or roll their eyes and wag their heads, “Here he goes again.”  They were able to get all the kids, including his own sisters behind his back to laugh at him. Soon, all the kids were refusing him a seat.  Headmaster Bradbury gave him a bench all to himself some days or sat the quieter younger girls next to him.
Tommy went outside one recess and tried to join Joshua, Jeremy and Phillip in a game of hide and seek.  Robby and Freddy came up and joined in.  When Jeremy closed his eyes and started counting, Robby and Freddy came up to Tommy and acted very pleasantly. 
“Hi Tommy, can we hide with you?”, smiled Robby.
“I don’t want you to see my hiding place.” replied Tommy.
“We won’t tell anyone.”, promised Freddy, “we wouldn’t betray our new friend.”
“It’s all well.”, Tommy was finding a big pile of leaves he had gathered earlier that day. It was impossible to find him.
“Let’s all three of us hide in there Tommy.”
As Tommy turned his back, Robby grabbed his hands and held him there as Freddy took the tug of war rope line he had been carrying on his arm and tied him up and laughed as Tommy angrily stared at them.  Tommy didn’t see the rope on their way out as Freddy has put his jacket over his arm loosely covering it.
“Tommy, the special son of Headmaster Tommy” gave Robby melodramatically in ridicule.
“Hahahahaha!”, Frederick laughed.
“HEEEEEELP!”, Tommy yelled.
 Robby slugged him in the stomach, knocking the wind out of him.  As Tommy started to scream in pain and yell louder.  Freddy took off his sock and stuffed it in his mouth.  As Tommy struggled, he tripped fell to the ground hitting his head making Tommy yell through his gag almost as loud as a scream, his face turning red.  Freddy and Robby kicked him in turn as Tommy did his best to curl up and struggle out.   Tommy twitched and rocked there struggling in his agony.
“If you rat on us, next time we’ll throw you in the river and tell him the Indians ran off with you.” said Robby.
Noise in the distance indicated Jeremy was looking for them now.  In the distance they could hear, “You can all come back now!”
“Cover him up.” whispered Robby to Freddy. 
They covered him in the leaves and left him there.  
They diverted Jeremy by running back to the schoolhouse but were caught by him along the way. 
“I looked everywhere for you.” said Jeremy completely unaware of what happened, “That’s a great hiding place.  Don’t worry, I caught Phillip first.  He’s waiting for you two. Hurry!”
They ran back, but then Jeremy halted them, “Wait, did either of you see Tommy?”
They shrugged and shook their heads. 
“Maybe he went back.”
***
Back at the playground, Captain Bradbury was keeping a close eye out and not seeing his son come back to the group of boys he was playing with, he got worried. “I’m extending recess..”  Cheers were heard from all quarters of the yard by the happily playing adolescents and children. Several girls ran past him apparently playing tag, followed by the girl who was ‘it’.  He walked up to the boys and asked them, “Have any of you seen Tommy?”
“No Headmaster.” they all said in turn.  Freddy’s gaze darted nervously as he said it.  Robby gave his answer straight face.  
“Frederick, did you see him?”
“He was playing with us but when we went to look for him, we couldn’t find him.” spoke Robby for him.
“Yah, he was here before we started. We were just playing hide and go seek.”
Headmaster Bradbury looked at each of them, looking to see if he could discern any more from their expressions.  His eyes were suspiciously glaring at Robby. “I need you to help me find him.”
“Tommy!”, shouted Captain Bradbury going in the direction where Tommy was.
Robby and Frederick went the opposite direction, “Last time we saw him was over here.”
Headmaster Bradbury headed over there to humor them still suspicious.  “Tommy!”, he walked further.  “Tommy!” he shouted it a few times louder.  He turned around going back to the school yard, went in and grabbed the bell and came out ringing it. 
“Listen up young scholars.  I need you to help me find Tommy.”
As the children all looked around at each other, the headmaster continued “I’ll reward anyone who finds him.”
Robby mouthed a “no” to Freddy and shook his head ever so slightly as Freddy looked over at him. 
Headmaster Bradbury split them up into pairs. “You two, head towards the trees north.”, “You two west towards the glen.” and so on. He saw them go off looking and walking in pairs.  The two going to the trees walked past the leaves but thought it might be a small animal like a raccoon or fox.  They went back and reported.
“We couldn’t find him.  It’s dark and there are wild animals out there.”
“Go back and look again.” replied the headmaster.  This happened a couple times more.  
Jeremy was one of the young kids who went towards the trees.  He looked on the ground and saw a lot of tracks.  Mary, Tommy’s sister was with him.  Jeremy asked her, “Did Tommy say anything to you?  Do you think he went this way?”, barely giving Mary a chance to answer anything.  
“He did not say anything.  Those look like his shoe size.” she replied.
As they came up to the leaf pile again, Jeremy gave it a more serious look and caught sight of Tommy’s  feet sticking out and a noise coming from under it.  As they uncovered him, they gasped.  He was tied up and thrashing, eyes closed and looking a mix of reds and purples.  Mary looked on in shock as Jeremy hurried to ungag and untie him. 
“Gadzoons! Holy mother! What happened to you?” asked Jeremy.
Thomas’ eyes were closed.  He was deliriously still thrashing. Jeremy shouted, “We found him! Hurry quickly!”
Captain Bradbury was furious.  “Who did this to …”, seeing his son there looking out of his usual color and condition, he picked him up and tried to set him on his feet, patting him.  Tommy couldn’t stand but lost the ruddy color in his face.  He held him up in his arm.  Jeremy explained how he had come across him buried, gagged and tied up and how they untied him pointing to the rope on the ground. 
He carried him back to the school yard and yelled “School is dismissed!”, “Mary, douse the hearth fire and close the door and catch up with me!” he yelled going through his school closing routine as quickly in his head as possible. He carried him home, Mary and Jane soon caught up with him.  
***
As they approached the house, Mary was waiting there.
“Good Mother of Christ, what happened to Tommy?”
“I think one or more of the boys that tease him.  I have to have a talk with their parents or expel those students, regardless of their payment, I’ll return their rate fees if I have to.  I think I know who did it.”
Mary took Thomas in her arms and noticed his head lump.  “I think he has taken a concussion to his head.  I’ll get his swelling down.  Mary rummaged through her boxes of salves and bandage cloths.  She took some water on a cloth and put it on his head and tried to get him to come to. 
Tommy moaned and groaned in pain, rocking and starting to cry loudly once again. Mary patiently waited it out before talking to him. Tommy went to sleep after Mary gave him some brandy to sedate him along with some herbals used for sleep.
*** 
Schoolmaster Bradbury went back to school the next day to conduct business and inquire of the incident but no one was forthcoming.  He was not able to dismiss anyone based on his hunches. 
Mary watched over Tommy as he lay there at home resting under her care and in between her much child tending.  Jacob, William and Elizabeth were always fighting and getting into difficult mishaps themselves.  Mary had been watching the mothers at the local meetinghouse and had picked up their stern and correcting tones.  She believed it would be easier when they were older if they learned some of the hard disciplines when younger or at the age of speaking.  After she set the children to work together, she went back to Tommy to see how he was doing.  He was awake now, one of his eyes drooping a little. 
A tear came to Mary’s eye as she realized how horribly he felt and how she realized he was being bullied.  Tommy held her tightly.  
“Tommy, can you tell me what happened?” 
Tommy looked at her scared to speak, stuttering through his fear.
“Please, tell me.”
“Why does everyone hate me?” he asked.
“Everyone doesn’t hate you.” she replied.
“I mean, at school, the kids there.  They all hate me.  What did I ever do to them?”
Mary looked at him, deep in thought wondering the same thing herself, she never thought of her son Tommy as one to inflict harm on others.  He was very docile and gentle.  She knew it would be a bad idea to tell him he failed to stand up for himself. It would only make him feel more like he failed.
“You will be doing the right thing by telling me who did this Tommy.  Don’t worry, I will protect you.  I will also start teaching you myself.”
“It was Robby and Freddy.”
“Good Tommy.  You are courageous to tell me.  I can’t say nothing bad will happen again.  That’s part of life.  But it won’t bad like this.”, in her mind she swore to herself that she’d keep him safe. 
***
Tommy and Mary went to school together after getting Squaw Mercy  to watch her children.  She broke through the aisle of the room.  It was separated into boys and girls.  Robby and Freddy looked nervously wide eyes but soon turned to scowl in threat at Tommy.  
“Can I have a word with you headmaster?”
“Recess!”, the children started to file out. 
Mary took him aside out of view.  Robby and Freddy stayed behind to listen and sure enough, they heard Mary give their names. Robby took a well of ink in his hand and stood up looking angry at Tommy. 
“You snitched on us didn’t you.” said Robby as he approached.
“You remember what we were going to do to you?”, said Freddy.
Robby moved in close as Tommy yelled “MOMMMMM!”
Robby put his hands in the ink and rubbed his hands all through Tommy’s face and hair.  “There, now you look like the rat you are.” he said with an clenched anger in his brow and gritted teeth and he pushed him back smartly.  Freddy pulled and messed up the ink in his hair.  Mary could be heard stepping quickly and opening the door.  Freddy and Robby ran.  Mary realized she left him alone and was quick to try and correct that but as she opened the door, she was too late. They had just taken off running and laughing knowing Mary would not be able to catch them.  Headmaster Bradbury soon followed and seeing Tommy, he was incensed.  Tommy broke into tears again sobbing. 
“I’ll kill those bastards!” yelled the headmaster.  All the children came inside to find out what all the commotion was about.  The children started to laugh at Tommy.  Headmaster Bradbury turned to stare at the children with a look they knew not to mess with.  “There will be no recess for the rest of the week.” he said calmly, “Instead, I’m going to have you sing together indoors.”  One small groan from one of the younger boys could be heard...he stopped mid-breath however when Headmaster Bradbury looked at him.  “We will be copying what I write here on my board, one hundred times.”
 I will not laugh at another’s misfortune.
Mary looked at Tom, and never saw him this angry before.  Thomas paced a bit then turned to look at Tommy and sternly told it to him: “I’m going to teach you how to fight if it’s the last thing I do.  Next time they do that, I want you to give it to them.” then he told the rest of the class, “I am going to step out but if I see anyone out of their seat or not writing, you will get the board.”
Mary and Tom went out of the classroom and headed into an argument, one of the loudest arguments Tommy had ever seen them have.  
“I have to get back to teaching, go back with Thomas and get him cleaned up.”  
Tommy’s white shirt was stained and his hair was stained black and unwashed.  Mary got him into a bath and scrubbed his face gently until the ink came off. When father came home, he told Mary and Thomas both with all the other children listening, “Those boys will not be coming back to our schoolhouse again.”
***
Mary schooled Tommy at home the rest of that year. She noticed he was becoming very adept at herbs, weaving, spinning threads, churning butter and taking care of the other children and their skinned knees, splinters and arms.  His youngest sisters loved him dearly. Mary had already seen Tommy’s head-turning at other boys older than him at church.  He stared at the ones with handsome mustaches, the same ones she might stare at when she was younger.  
After church one day, Mary talked to him as her oldest Judith took care of the children for her and took Thomas upstairs alone to the place where Thomas worked and spun the wool.  She called down to Judith, “Don’t let anyone else come up here.”
“Thomas Junior.”
“Yes mother?”
“I know your father talked to you about the birds and bees last year.  There’s probably something he didn’t mention. …  first, let me ask you something.”
“Do you fancy any of the maidens at the meeting?”
“I guess so.”
“I know you’re young and not expected to suit these ladies yet, but something tells me you’re not going to.”
“Why do you say that mother?”
“Tommy, who do you really fancy?  You don’t have to tell me ladies here.”
Tommy blushed a little bit.  “I ..”, he cleared his throat as he tried to get it out. “, I know it’s strange.  I don’t think I’m supposed to feel this.  I find Samuel to be the most beautiful man I know. His eyes make me melt, and when he looks at me, I get butterflies. I can’t help but spy him when he’s not looking at me.  I’m sorry mother.”
“Tommy, I saw it myself.  Do not be sorry.”,
“I can’t ..”
“Tommy, the first thing you have to learn is that you should find someone...someone who has the same tastes you do. Do you understand?”
“Yes Mother.”
“You also should take time to get to know your friends and when you find a special friend, take your time, look for several of them. Find the one who you know is for you.  I am the one who should be sorry.”
“Sorry for what Mother?”
“Sorry for what I cannot give to you.  Our society, does not look as kindly upon on such people and it is a wickedness to them.”, Thomas looked downcast but she continued, “But you are my son, and this is not a wickedness to me.  It would be more of a transgression if you were to try and suit someone’s daughter.  Your calling is different.  Your calling is to nature Herself.  You have gifts of her spirit and will be able to work her marvels. While your love is something you must keep away from the view of others, you must abide the same rules of being fair and devoted and just like others like the friend of a friend I once knew, you can keep your home matters to yourself and live your calling.  Perhaps you will not be a father but you will help children of our blood who have no one else to guide them.  Your hands will be free to help whomever comes to you for aid.  You will be a father to the fatherless in this way even though you will be father to none, you are also father to all, like our dear Lord.”
“Tonight, I will share with you what my mother shared with me.”, said Mary to Tommy. Mary sounded like her own mother then and there in her memory even though she had already given Judith the test and was planning on testing her grandchildren some day if she lived long enough.  She gave him the same introduction and initiation that her mother Judith had given her except telling him that he would be a great Prince instead.
“First, I give you your magic wand.  You can create anything you want with this.”, she handed Thomas an ink pen with a long wooden handle. 
Thomas looked at it and then at her confused, “This….is a wand?  How ….”
“Just listen, how to use it will become clear soon enough, but for your first test of magic, I would like you to summon a seagull.  The best seagull you can.”  Thomas Jr. paused a second  and then realized what was he was being asked to do.  He got a piece of parchment out on his hornbook and started to draw.
Mary inspected his drawing.  It was most beautiful and even had the detail she was looking for.  He didn’t draw all of it realistically but it captured the personality almost cartoonishly.  The abstract minor details he left out but the identifying ones and markings of import like the red on its bill he purposefully drew.  He added the shadows and it seemed to have life to it as that of one captured in the mind’s eye mid-flight.
She reviewed his drawing with him and put it away safely and finished off with the standard warnings, “There’s one last thing I must tell you.  That is, tell no one, no one except myself and those I grant you to tell it to.  These will be of our family who have the gifts first and foremost, and those friends and mates of yours who are pleasing to me and you will tell them the same way I told you: Tonight, I will share with you what my mother shared with me.”
From that day forth, Tommy shed his childhood nickname and asked to be called “Tom” or “Junior”.  He continued to be a beacon to bullies but they never lasted long enough to do him any harm.  People still insinuated about him and treated him less than the other men in the public sphere but in his home life, he was valued and held in high esteem for his wisdom and knowledge and miraculous ability to work any craft and especially, to make finery, costumes and threads of the finest quality, imbued with a magic only he seemed to know.  His charm as a gentleman would later be well renowned despite his status as the perennial bachelor and somewhat of a play boy. 
***
Mary’s motherhood was starting to wear her down.  Now in her forties, she woke up in aches and pains on the sides she rested on.  Not only did she care for her own but she was a wet nurse, midwife, healer and teacher for others.  The Dame School often felt like a day care.  While Mary’s reputation for her medical success and treatment of smallpox caught the attention of all the great physics and doctors, she wondered if that was the end of her influence.  The day to day grind forced her to delegate much of her work to Wymond and Judith. Mary was going to now have another child who she named Ann but without the e.  
Two years after that, she had her final baby, a boy she named Jabez as the toils of motherhood were taking their toll on her entire body.  Just as she was feeding Jabez, Ann fell sick.  Judith her daughter was at a loss to save her despite the excellent teaching Mary gave her.  Ann passed away at the tender age of three.  
***
Mary’s heart was broken.  Major Robert Pike, a good friend of Captain Bradbury during his time as a military leader, came by to offer condolences.  Captain Bradbury had served as second in command as an ensign to him in the local militia.  The Bradbury’s admired Major Pike’s eloquent and soft voice yet firm resolve.  Major Pike was also a man of sympathy towards people of other faiths like the many Quakers who fled mother England to arrive here and escape persecution in recent years.  While most people reviled Quakers, the Bradbury and Pike families were tolerant and even sympathetic to them and were even inspired by their views of having a personal and non-dogmatic view of deity and creation.  Major Pike was about Mary’s age, yet Captain Thomas had looked up to Major Pike because of the fine upbringing of his children and Major PIke’s own father, John Pike who had died only a few years ago.  John Pike was like a father to the entire town of Salisbury.  It was for this that Captain Bradbury lived vicariously through Robert and they spent much time in the courts as well handling land deeds.  They spoke to each other at the same level.  Major Pike had many beautiful daughters, very young but the oldest Sarah was just a few years younger than Mary’s son Wymond.  
As Sarah had been taught in their home many times, Wymond became fond of Sarah and while there were potential suitors, Wymond was already first in line and began to woo her as soon as it was clear she could start having gentlemen call on her to date. Wymond had played “Jack” Valentine for the Feast of St. Valentine for the past five years handing her sweets.  They married in May of 1661.  

Ipswich, 1655 to 1659
Just outside of Salisbury, on a three acre parcel of corn plantation sat a landing with a ferry docked there.  Across the river, a great home sat atop an island known in Ipswich as “Carr Island”, after its owner George, who now gated the river owning both sides of it.  Five years ago, he saw Captain Thomas Bradbury who had written the order for the construction of the bridge granting George the ownership of the operation on conditions.  It was a tall order requiring clearance on all sides of the bridge so as to safely accommodate passengers, cargo and horses.  George was relishing that he now had nearly exclusive control.  The capital and labor required for building the floating bridge of the dimensions given in the decree were hard to come by.  The work progress slowly until the summer of 1655 when the bridge was nearly completed, opposition to the effort was encountered by a petition to the General Court that outlined the dangers that could result from the obstruction such a bridge would be to passing vessels on the river.  The court then passed an order to answer the petition made by the citizens of Salisbury to set aside times for navigation so they could transport animal feed. 
“Elizabeth!”
George now fifty-six had married Elizabeth Dexter now thirty-two some fourteen years ago. He being more tired in his age and hard at his work was delighted to have found a young eighteen year old girl who could take care of his children, now seven of them at home.  
“Yes George?”
“We’ve just completed the bridge.  I will be getting our townsmen of Ipswich together to inspect it and report on it.  I think there will be no troubles getting it certified by them.  I told them I’d be entertaining them here after they look at it and give it a test ride.”  
Elizabeth was followed by her two sons, Richard and James into their kitchen. 
The floating bridge carried a retinue of attendants on horseback for the presiding magistrate of the court of old Norfolk county. 

Sure enough, they signed a statement that the bridge was fully sufficient for the safe passage of both men and horses.  Given the petition that added to his burden, the certificate was further worded that the earnings of all other ferries now belong to George and that any competing ferries must cease unless employed by said George Carr for his use and control. It was signed by judge Samuel Symonds. 
***
Five years later, the court exempted the bridge from taxes and George was granted one hundred and fifty more acres and was able to fend off his competitors from regaining control for a time. However, being that this grand floating bridge became the sole source of transportation and as demand for it grew during further settlement, it soon became a very sore bottleneck and a demand George didn’t care to cater to out of his own sense of total and absolute power in this situation.  The increased demand ensured he had a monopoly and could charge handsomely over or under the table for whatever deal he wanted.  
***
Boston, Spring 1660
A man in a black mask sat in a damp cave, his hair flowing out from behind it.  A new slave girl from Africa sat on one side of him and an assembly of ladies both old and young and a few men, and slaves sat in front of him. Endicott
“Mary Dyer, mother of our sacrifice has returned to Boston and become an annoyance, contending against our seats of power.  The time is ripe for her removal.”
A crowd of black robes rose in cheers.  “Blood for our Prince!” the chanted.
***
Mary Dyer had been staying at Shelter Island for the past few years in the comfort of other Quaker refugees.  Given the convictions and outrage at the actions of the Puritans in excusing their awful treatment towards the Quakers, Ms. Dyer had resolved to return to Boston, redeeming herself and going like a lamb to the slaughter as she saw it in similitude of her Lord and in defense of the freedom of her conscience and the conscience of others like her.  She was soon arrested as was the law in Boston for violating her exile.  On the last day of May, she was sat before the old John Endicott resting lazily above her against the wooden supports as he gazed down at her looking upon her in disgust, his tongue smacked his lips before he started his interrogation.
“Are you the same Mary Dyer that was here before?”
”I am the same Mary Dyer that was here the last General Court”
“You will own yourself a Quaker, will you not?”
“I own myself to be reproachfully so called.”
“Sentence was passed upon you the last General Court; and now likewise--You must return to the prison, and there remain till to-morrow at nine o'clock; then thence you must go to the gallows and there be hanged till you are dead.”
“This is no more than what thou saidst before.”
“But now it is to be executed. Therefore prepare yourself to-morrow at nine o'clock.”
“I came in obedience to the will of God the last General Court, desiring you to repeal your unrighteous laws of banishment on pain of death; and that same is my work now, and earnest request, although I told you that if you refused to repeal them, the Lord would send others of his servants to witness against them.”
“Do you own yourself a prophetess too?”
“I speak the words that the Lord speaks to me.”
“Do you intend to speak here?” and he lowered his eyes and brows down at her glaring and waiting for her to defy him. 
“The Lord’s will is my sacrifice will open....”
She continued to speak no one heard her over the loud and furious voice of John Endicott, “Away with her!  Away with her now!” 
***
The next day, at nine of the clock in the morning, Mary Dyer was escorted by an executioner and towed but with a slack cord as she went willingly to the gallows.  As he bade her to climb the ladder under the elm tree, 
Endicott asked her in his smug smirking way seeing he might make himself look bad he tried to put on the airs of being merciful: “Out of mercy, I will ask you one time.  Will you accept my offer to to return to exile with the other..other...heretical lunatics of your kind and spare your own life?”
"Nay, I cannot; for in obedience to the will of the Lord God I came, and in his will I abide faithful to the death."
The military commander, Captain John Webb, took over reading the charges: “For the wicked crime of heresy and for the conspiracy to destroy the church from within under the foul influence of the Devil, “ and so on saying how she was guilty of her own blood and not anyone else’s and how this was well deserved punishment and just how bad the Quakers were.  He then asked, to which John Endicott rolled his eyes and looked away, “Do you have any last words, Mary Dyer?” in his most officious voice. 
Mary replied: “Nay, I came to keep bloodguiltiness from you, desiring you to repeal the unrighteous and unjust law of banishment upon pain of death, made against the innocent servants of the Lord, therefore my blood will be required at your hands who willfully do it; but for those that do is in the simplicity of their hearts, I do desire the Lord to forgive them. I came to do the will of my Father, and in obedience to his will I stand even to the death.”
Captain Webb, hesitant asked, “Anyone else?”, which started Endicott boiling under his collar but showing restraint in public view, he impatiently waited tapping his foot and fingers.
Mary’s former pastor, John Wilson, stepped up, trying to get her to change her mind, “I urge you Mary to repent and to not be so deluded and carried away by the deceit of the devil!"
Mary answered, "Nay, man, I am not now to repent." 
Pastor Wilson continued, “Would you at least have the elders pray for your soul?”
Mary then replied, "I know never an Elder here." 
Pastor Wilson then started to speak, “Your friends here, can they pray for your soul by their own free will?”
John Endicott tapped Captain Webb with an angry look now reddening his face and motioned with his finger to give the order.  
Mary had barely spoke when Captain Webb signaled the order, she got out the words “My Friends ah….”
The executioner tipped the ladder thus swinging her off and she made a squeak and choke.  She kicked the air a few minutes.  Several people looked around about to take off their hats and seemingly confused about what to do since it had been a good seasons since the last hanging. 
Mary’s friends in Portsmouth, Rhode Island wrote of her: 
Mary Dyer the wife of William Dyer of Newport in Rhode Island: she was put to death at the Town of Boston with ye like cruel hand as the martyrs were in Queen Mary's time, and there buried upon ye 31 day of ye 3d mo. 1660." 
In those days, the calendar used at the time had May as the third month of the year, but the date in the record is incorrect by a day since the actual date of death was 1 June.  Whether they did this out of their own lunar calendar practice or intentionally or by accident, no one knows any more.
In that year, there were more public preachings and whippings and five executions all dying the same way poor Mary Dyer did.  Mary lamented to Thomas about what she could possible do for these poor Quakers.  Committed more than ever, Mary sought to covertly assist them whenever she could.  In the May of 1661, the Pike family put together one of the most beautiful weddings to ever take place in Salisbury sealing the alliance between the Bradburys and the Pike family. 
***
In the winter of 1662, three more Quaker women arrived in Dover, New Hampshire, preaching for a time but then arrested and sentenced to be whipped publicly.  The magistrate there being the dutiful tool of Boston arranged by Endicott, made a show of his authority by issuing a warrant that decreed that all  the the constables of eleven surrounding towns, including Salisbury, were to carry out public whippings of the three women. They were transported in a cart to Salisbury, the third town of the eleven.  When they arrived, they came upon Captain Thomas Bradbury, Robert Pike and Walter Barefoote. 
The constable spoke to them, “I’m here by order of Richard Waldron, magistrate of Dover and by the most Honorable John Endicott to have these three Quaker women publicly whipped here at your town square, please gather your citizens together.  If you do not comply, I have authority to arrest you too.”
Robert Pike replied, “I’m the constable here. Bring out your detainees for us to inspect.” 
The constable brought them out in their bilboes and chains. 
“Captain Bradbury, please read the papers of the good constable.”
Captain Bradbury knew that this was to restrain the fat constable should he protest. 
“Walter Barefoote, I hereby grant you power as deputy.”
Walter Barefoote then promptly released them all as Captain Bradbury restrained the constable who protested. 
“You do not have authority to do that!”
“I have authority to deputize anyone I so wish.  I did not order my deputy to release them.  I believe my deputy has merely misused his authority, I’ve seen that happen before in Dover.  Worry not, I will soon correct him.”
“Walter, bad deputy!  I hereby release you.”
Using the loophole Major Pike found would not jeopardize Walter since he was like an ambassador with a tribe the colonists were trying to be on good terms with.  
“You’ll pay for that!”
“There will be no such thing.  You have no power here.  Be off.”
The women stayed with Mary Bradbury and helped her with her many children which she tended.  Mary was worried they’d just go preaching again and get themselves arrested all over again.  She encouraged them in wisdom that they should find those first that were in a quandary of which way to go first to preach there but to agree with the adversary while in the way with him so they could more effectively deliver their message.  
“You’ll be no use to the Lord if you’re captured again.  You can’t preach in bonds and no one admires the suffering.  Be patient and gentle as doves and wise as pythons as the good book would say.” she said persuasively.
They heard her out and thanked her for the mercy shown to them.  While Captain Bradbury freely gave them transportation to wherever they wished, they were given passage to a midway point and left to walk the paths they decided on as was their way.  Mary had assumed that they were no longer heard from as suffering further capture and so was contented with that. To be sure, Mary had taken written them a special letter sealed as she had learned from her spell books.  The letters contained a blessing with a foreword giving it to them by name:
By the power of our Lord and our Lady, Father and Mother on High. By the Father Son and Holy Ghost, and their Goodwives each.  By Peter James and John. By the Mary three.  Blessed are ye. (here was written a seal) 
The evil eye shall not watch thee.  The spying eye will not find thee.  The scrying glass will cloud for thee.  An unbreakable shield come between thee and any calamity until the day of your departure from this world cometh as written in ye Booke of Life.  May the Good Lord grant me, fore-bearing my unclean hand and filthy paper to inscribe for thee my wish in his Book.  Thy servant Mary, ordained to serve thee forever and ever. Amen.
x
Ipswich 1668
With that, the women went on their way and were not harmed again.
***
A man in a black mask sat in a damp cave, the lightning shone upon the rain outside.  He was  surrounded by a dozen others.  He stood up this time to speak, “Her entire family, this Bradbury family and this Pike family have thwarted me enough and derailed us this time.  These Quakers threaten to destroy our stronghold and everything else we hold dear.  Our traditions will not be mocked.  Her simplest acts bring us down like a pillar of kettles.  You have all of you let me down.  I will let none of you back in until you fulfil my next design upon her.  Alice, Batilde, step forward and bare to me your hands.”
They took an oath and received devices and information to set up Mary’s family directly this time in the recess he had curtained off there.  He then came back with them, both women bloody handed and stripped bare.  A large clamoring of voices started to rise but his first words silenced them quickly:
“See what I will do for those who serve.  Also see what I will do to those who do not.”
He unveiled a table having skulls still pink from recent deaths.  As he did, a rats scurried away from the torchlight.  Only gasps were heard now.  He took a torch and lit a fat and oil soaked fire.  It flamed up high.  More gasps were heard.  What happened next would split the air with the sound of screams prefaced by spiteful and angry hectoring, tearful pleading and followed by loud maniacal laughter full of arrogant mockery at someone’s demise. 
***
Mary’s son Jacob had taken an adventure to West Africa.  He had been late reaching her.  Mary feared the worst and sure enough, word came back that Jacob had died there.  From what they never said consistently.  Mary was in mourning and soul-searching. The loss of her son Jacob was too much to bear.  Her family wept bitterly for him. He had died without issue or love at the tender age of twenty one. 
***
Mary’s little brother Jacob, now forty-four years old, came knocking on the Bradbury residence door with his dainty wife Elizabeth and six children in tow.  They all had similar names so that Mary, in her age got confused with all the similar names like Judith, Elizabeth, John and Jacob.  She used their full names and still got confused since they reminded her so much of her own family members.  Thankfully, Mary’s three oldest daughters were not around and Jacob provided her with nicknames.  Judith, Mary and Jane had all recently been married.  Wymond’s wife Sarah was now expecting their third child after having two girls. Wymond was expecting a boy and would name him after himself if it came true.  Mary offered them all tea and crackers in gracious hostess style and had a meal started.  Jacob was flustered and after a brief consolation for the loss of Jacob, Mary’s son, he brought to her notice the real reason for his visit..
“Mary, I really must now tell you what happened this past week if you do not already know.”
To Mary, this seemed like a huge load to take on coming up.  
“I’m so sorry dear brother.  I will sit down while the water’s boiling.  Do continue your accounting.”
Jacob started quickly dropping the word “Fire.” which concerned Mary greatly so much that she had to ask him to start over.
“The home we settled into as youths in Ipswich has been much improved on over the years thanks to the bountiful increases the Lord has bestowed upon us.  Father had improved it further after your good husband took your hand and left me with a large estate to manage.  For this purpose I employed help as could be found from around Ipswich, some who are fair with us and others, who I do believe do not have our welfare at heart.  We have suffered a great fire where many of our family’s properties as heirs and assigns were damaged or fully consumed.”
“How did that happen?” asked a shocked Mary.
“We had left for town to do our business and sell our first harvests and left our maidservant, Mehitable or Meddy Brabrook of now marrying age was taken with much smoking from her pipe and from what her mother said, ‘playing the whore’, lying and stealing. ”
“Mehitable Braybrook? Of Richard Braybrook’s? Was anyone with her?”, Mary was all ears now.
“Yes.  Yes.  Yes. The only witness was a John Williston, a youth had related to me thus that as he was going to the meadows to make hay, Meddy had told him that my wife, or ‘her dame’ as she put it, was angry with her but that she would get even and so Meddy put a great toad in the milk kettle and told him about it the next morning with a countenance of wicked glee at her mischief saying “that should fix her!”.  This being about July before the fire.  She has from what I can tell,  been reckless before and shy of giving a fair report and playing the frail and fearful child for her own ends.”
“There is indeed a motive then for her to take revenge.”
“Our family was sickened by the soured and tainted milk.  It caused the children nausea and delirium.  Mary, I fear this girl could be in competition or opposition against your troop of just and benevolent wise ladies and gifted wives.”   
“I know there’s someone out there, I just don’t know who or where yet but I’m tired of watching more pain and suffering.  I feel like I have failed everyone and yet I’m so tired.”
“We have to work our minds, hearts and arms and not our arms alone.”
“Please do continue.  So what happened to the home and the girl?  Anyone hurt?”
“So she said that she was going outside and saw that the hogs had gone into the corn.  She couldn’t see where all of them were so she said she climbed the oven on the back of the house to get a better view.  As she neared the top, she used the roof thatch to steady herself but as she mounted the top with her other hand, she knocked the pipe out accidentally and she, thinking there was no fire in the pipe thought no more of it and went down to drive away the hogs out of the corn.  As she went about driving the hogs out, and neared unto the rails of Abraham’s field which John Jr had granted him several years ago being newlywed, she looked back and saw the smoke rising right where she had dropped her pipe and panicked and went into Abraham Perkins, our nephew’s home and there found his wife Hannah, mentioning the kettle of clothes I had asked her help with.  Hannah asked Meddy to go to the barn to summon her maid to watch her child as she went over to extinguish the fire.  It seemed an oddly round about way to show her the fire.  As they went back home, they saw the smoke now billowing.  Hannah desperately tried to reach for the pail and fill it at the well but it was already part burned to the ground by the time she  got back.  The thatch went ablaze and having no ladders or anyone else to call on and not able to withstand going nigh to it, the house burned to the ground.  When she demanded her to tell her why she didn’t tell her about it immediately, Meddy said she was loath to frighten here and when asked why she did not run to put out the fire with a pail herself when it was small and she could climb to it, she said she was so panicked that she didn’t dare go to it.  She said when she first saw her open the door, she asked Hannah why the woods looked so blue beyond our house since the smoke was there.  Meddy added later that an hour before the fire, she was boiling a kettle of clothes and saw a chimney fire which frightened her but that she put that out with the lye water in the kettle.”
“What about Hannah’s testimony then?”
“She agreed in Meddy’s story that they saw the smoke and were unable to quench the fire in time and had to cease their efforts.”
“Was she found guilty?”
“Meddy showed up in court and was convicted of Extreme Carelessness If Not Willingly Setting the Fire due to John Williston’s forthcomingness and honesty.  So Meddy went to jail and was whipped and has been ordered to repay me. I don’t know how a girl of her standing and illegitimacy would fare in working off that debt but I do not wish to employ her any more for what she did.  I’ve forgiven her in my heart and am at peace in this matter.”
“Your of a stronger character than I am Jakey.  At least it is not the plague.  I’d rather lose my home than die that painful death.”
“We did well to leave the old kingdom.  London is now a constant report of plague and death.  We can take the pox when our strength is high and thus never be affected by it again.  I don’t trust getting near the plague.”
“So Jake, do you need a place to stay?”
“Just the night for myself, my dear wife Elizabeth and the children, would they be trouble to stay a short season until I can rebuild?”
“I would not think of making you go back.  You have a good inheritance that can help with the restoration.  Do not be reluctant to make good use of what blessings you still have and can be thankful for.  We will be close in here but your children are well behaved, they will help me where I have been wanting for help.  Just come back and visit week to week for dinner at least will you?  Do not leave your dear wife alone too long.”
***
Mary was no stranger to death by now but it was only next spring when another son of hers would be taken.  Wymond had just had his son and decided he would sail off to make his living and trade in the Caribbean seas.  He had escaped to a tiny volcanic island in the long chain of islands now overrun with pirates from Spain.  Sarah was devastated.  Major Pike and Captain Bradbury gave her comfort and assurances for the care of her two daughters and her one month old baby who she named for her husband.  Wymond Jr, not knowing was a cheerful baby despite his mother’s forlorn and depressed state.  Mary took her in and they became the best of friends and was like her own daughter.   Her son Thomas, a successful businessman in Salisbury, taught at a grammar school and helped her husband run the grocery store, was doing extremely well as a weaver on the side with a business partner.  Mary saw baby Wymond and for a moment, she thought he winked at her.  Mary’s eyes grew wide wondering what this might mean but it wasn’t long before she would know.  The baby who lost his father at birth was a special case indeed.  Not only that but he was presented hips first and yet completely healthy. His large eyes stared everywhere in curiosity turning his head at almost all times to take the world in.  Even with such blessing in store, Mary took to reading by candlelight after everyone slept drinking a tea to calm her nerves, exhausted with the burden of surviving so many unfortunate ones around her.  She took to deep meditation and petitioning for protection from her enemies. 
Captain Bradbury noticed a black cat on the doorstep one evening after he had spied dead mice on the doorstep over the past several weeks.  Mary adopted him and called him Ralf.
***
