Before long, Mary’s children were dating and courting and getting married. 
George Carr’s fortunes were threatened as demand for passage across his river grew and his customers grew.  His only hope was to find a sympathetic ear in Newbury and Salisbury.  Since Captain Bradbury had mercifully granted him a building contract for the floating bridge so many years ago in that first court order, it only made sense to persuade him again and if it meant forming an alliance between his sons and the Captain’s daughters all the better.  It would have happened too except Mary had strictly put an end to it.  Captain Bradbury listened to Mary’s intuition in all seriousness.  Mary had told John Carr that he was too young to marry his daughter Jane and that she already had a favorite suitor by way of Henry True who was about her same age.  It was a fair alternate reason to give instead of having to explain to the poor lad the business between her and her father and the decree of her mother that she both never forgot and kept to herself.  She also saw through him George’s prodding to get in good with them again, ever the charmer.  His business would certainly not help her family working hard down in Ipswich.  This wouldn’t be the last run in she would have with the Carr boys.  
Rebecca Wheelwright, daughter of John Wheelwright and sister in law to Anne Hutchinson, the midwife to Mary Dyer, had lost her husband Samuel Maverick in a mysterious incident earlier that year.  She had just returned from Boston to go back home to her father in Salisbury and was new to town there.  Rebecca was a very young widow and fair woman to look upon so she had many suitors from miles around.  
One of them was James Carr, a year younger than William and very handsome but also very controlling.  James doted on her with many gifts, clothes, sweets, and flowers.  Rebecca, in her emotional confusion had double-booked her suitors. 
William knocked on the young widow Maverick’s door.  
“Oh my stars, I’ve done it again.”, mumbled Rebecca. “COME IN!  William!”
“Who is this my dear?”, asked James.
“James, this is my dear friend William Bradbury who donated flowers for my late husband’s funeral.  Goodman William, this is the esteemed river baron, James Carr.”
“A good morrow James. How do you fare today?”, William greeted him with gritting teeth.
No answer came from James but a hard stare.
“I beg your pardon Mister Carr, may I speak candidly to Rebecca for a moment?” he spoke, sideways to James and then faced Rebecca, “I thought your wish today was for me to accompany you to town so you could find some saddles to fit you for your late husband’s  horses.”
“It is but…..”, she blushed seeing his jaw drop a bit, “Oh, I’m so sorry William, with my mind so distraught and encumbered with the affairs of my late’s passing, I have had much frenzy of mind in properly inviting and keeping my own dates appointed in good order.”
“I am sorry too dear Rebecca.”, replied William starting to get annoyed with her but at the same time trying to be sympathetic to her pains.
“Just a moment William, what your family name might be, I was here by her request and she is in need of my care as I arrived afore you.”, snarled James.
“I have not spent little time in travelling here Good Sir.  I am sorely put out with my travels here being in vain.  Should I just return now?” said William in some huff.
“No William, stay.” pleaded Rebecca.
“I must not stay for your sake Rebecca but also for mine since I will not stay in the company of so rude a suitor.” he said to Rebecca and then turning to James, “I have seen men suit women for years with all my elder sisters and none of them have had your gall Good Sir.”, turning back to Rebecca again William turned to exit with the pains of rejection in his voice: “Good day Madam.”
Outside, William did not immediately leave but walked up and down and paced. 
Inside, James quarreled with Rebecca, “Why did you invite him? Who do you fancy more Rebecca dear, me or him?” said an angry James.  
“James, I told you, I forgot he was taking me to get a saddle and riding boots when you were coming over.” she pleaded.
William rode his horse back home, teary-eyed but not giving up.  William took a shortcut through the marsh lands and splattered his clothes with gritty black mud.  He now felt sad and angry with no one.  He was only mad at fate and God for what had happened despite not knowing the matter of the Carr family.  Mary was loathe to bring up that part of her past.  As he walked in the door and stomped into the main room, Mary thought to herself Oh Dear, I hope he wasn’t jilted. Mary had picked up the new terms the children these days were starting to use, it wasn’t something she had heard of growing up. She fancied herself a more modern woman than people gave her credit for and chuckled inwardly but then checked in with the present moment and realized she had a very sad son on her hands.  
“What happened Will?”
“The beautiful widow, Miss Rebecca Wheelwright Maverick,  who I told you that I saw in town,  had a Mister Carr with her.”, he grumbled.
“Carr?”, she replied almost quizzically with raised eyebrow, “full name dear, full name.”
“James Carr.”
Mary thought for a moment to herself again How can that be? “My, this is worse than I thought, but if fate be true, then this cannot stand.” Mary remembered her mother’s words long before.  “You cannot be so easily chased off by one mistake in a girl’s mind. If it is just a test, go back and you will find her again.  If it is not meant to be, you will not find her again.  Patience.  She is still going through a lot and will not choose so hastily.  Write her and tell her how you feel.”
William wrote her a letter after weeks of thought and hesitation:

Dearest Miss Rebecca Maverick,  


I am grateful to you for being forthcoming about your dilemma of having much help in your travails and yet having much need for your own peace of mind.  I apologize that I left in such haste and uncheerfulness.  I would that you write me back when you would see me again and have fully mourned your late husband if I cannot see you sooner.  I must confess, I had more interest in becoming better acquainted with you than I did looking through leathers at a store.  I couldn’t get our first exchange of greeting out of my mind.  Do you believe in love at first sight?  

That you would need my help was an honor of course.  So even now, I pledge to be more patient in offering these hands to your aid as was my wish.  It was only one unfortunate mishap that I arrived in the midst of your previous engagement and I would not count it or remember it anymore.  I would cheerfully like to help you another time to pick out a saddle and boots if that is still your need.  It was silly of me to be so petulant so I ask your forgiveness.  This day has taught me much.  I would be willing to bet you could teach me more.  As I was coming home, my dear mother reminded me of the great wisdom in Patience and when I look back upon it now, I can only laugh at my error and can only feel  joy that I at least got to see you once again and in good company and cheer.  Please give Mr. Carr my apologies for my interruption.  If you would like me to call on you, it would give me some joy to take you through the orchards I have planted here in Salisbury.  Their paths are full of blossoms that remind me of the beauty of Mother Nature but even more my feelings for you.  I pray God preserves you and clears a path of happiness, hope and joy for you which you so deserve regardless of anything else.  

Yours in faith, hope and charity,

William Bradbury

William sent it the following day in Salisbury through his father who went to town regularly for work of one kind or another.  He would easily find her father the pastor there.  
“Good day Pastor”
“Good day it is Captain Bradbury.”
“I have a letter from my son...”
“Oh?”
“For your daughter!”, he looked at him. 
John Wheelwright secretly read the letter William wrote. He felt a sudden empathy for him. Before he handed the letter to his daughter Rebecca, he prefaced it with a little speech on forgiveness and noting that Captain Bradbury was an influential and well-respected man of their town, he thought immediately this would be profitable. He didn’t have to persuade much though.  Rebecca had seen her father do this before and she was most impatient this time. 
“Now, it is a virtue to forgive as well as forget my dear daughter.  This is what the Lord asks of us.”
“Hand it to me please father?  No more. Please!”
Rebecca read the letter and not only did she forgive him but she swooned with his writing and romantic flair. Rebecca had been lonely these days.  James Carr never did return.  She had no idea where he had gone.  She wrote in response.  Her father was also a very eloquent man and even suggested to her how to word it.  She impatiently kept it brief. 
Dear Mister William Bradbury,
I have had much time here lately to grieve and think all the things you wrote of. Also with  thanks to my dear father, our local Pastor, I have been afforded much advice also to reflect upon as well as the matters you have disclosed to me. I invite you to come back at any good time you wish. I have more to say when I see you again which I hope you will afford me.  May the Lord watch over you and bless you.
With all my heart,
Rebecca Maverick

William and Rebecca fell rapidly in love with each other as William wrote her poetry regularly.  She forgot all about James Carr and it wasn’t before long, 
Mary was picking flowers for their wedding.  She was picking a lot of flowers lately and taking them to the church to the point she started having the reputation of being “The Flower Lady”.  If it wasn’t a wedding it was a funeral and if not a funeral, a wedding.  All the time in between she was running her day care and Dame School and her home just about became a hotel of sorts with her friends, help and daughters taking care of all her guests.  To feed  her guests, she often let them trade in livestock.  Hogs, sheep and cows in particular.  She also had enough cows to employ a team of milk maids and amongst themselves, they would make butter for the whole town as well as the specialty salves which she specialized in.  They were usually kind enough to pay but on the rare occasion she reminded them and they didn’t, she would forgive their indebtedness in exchange for secrecy of that forgiveness so it would not invite further burden.
James Carr sat up in his bed in a sweat, feeling dread and fear of wild beasts all around him.  After the day broke, he rode his yearling to Doctor Crosby’s. 
“Good morrow Mr. Carr.  What is it you seek my assistance for today?”
“I have been awake, fearing wild beasts have entered my room, trying to take me in my sleep.”
“For how long?”
“All last week and up until this day.”
“James, I think it’s nerves.  Let me have a look at you.”
Doctor Crosby did his usual inspection for signs of bad humors and started looking through his book for herbs and medicines that would cure it.  
“I have an elixir for you.  It has some tobacco, brandy and a tiny bit of Jimson weed.  Take this in the evening before you sleep.”
James went home and took this medicine religiously for ten months or so.  It didn’t work and in fact continued.  He went back time after time to Doctor Crosby who increased the dosage. It still didn’t work.  
“Doctor Crosby, I don’t know why this isn’t working. I have been taking it as you instructed me to.”
“Mister Carr, I have a suspicion that this is not a physical ailment at all.”
“Oh?  What is it then?”
“I suspect you have been behagged.  You wouldn’t know anyone who you’ve seen lately that could do this do you?”
“I have also thought so a good while.”
“So who do you think may have behagged you?”
“I durst not say who because she is counted by all an honest woman.”
“Mr. Carr, if you don’t say, your condition will never change.”
“Goodwife Bradbury.”
“Mary Bradbury, wife of Captain Bradbury?”
“The same you have said.”
“This shouldn’t be said to anyone else Mr. Carr, but I do believe she has signed the Devil’s book and is a great deal worse than even Goody Martin.”
“You know I believe it’s true.  There is a strange twist in all her workings so that whatever she looks sternly upon, it comes to perish sooner or later out of her sight.”
James went home and continued to take the physic which initially made him feel comfortable but after so much time, his eyes popped open and the fear of the dark came upon him.  He went back to Doctor Crosby to tell him that it wasn’t working again.
“Doctor Crosby, I am still having the night fear and feelings of being ripped at by an invisible creature.  I woke up again and I thought there was a cat by my bed.  I tried to strike it off the bed but it was too fast and as my feet fell asleep and I was frightened, but I eventually got up and heard it coming back so I looked to see where it was if it came near me so I could strike it again. It got on the bed and I hit it and it was right after that I felt the medicine go to work and I was asleep again.  I’m sure it’s Mary afflicting me in her spectral form.”
“That would explain why the physic suddenly worked.  It must be witchcraft then!”
Mary was cautious of this arrangement between her son and Rebecca but she felt that for some unknown reason in the future, she had best go along with it.  For one, her daughter in law’s father, Robert Pike was often displeased with the service Pastor Wheelwright gave, feeling it was hypocritically tolerant of the antinomians but intolerant of the Quakers.  Major Pike was one of the most fair minded gentlemen she knew and while Pastor Wheelwright was very logical, he was also very opinionated and sometimes unfairly so.  She did however sense in her heart that he could be persuaded with enough care and that things would work out in the end for him and that he would die of old age. Unfortunately, it was only a year later that her elder sister Elizabeth in the neighboring town of Amesbury passed away.   Mary could tell it was coming but felt constrained to warn anyone of their oncoming death feeling it was one of the secrets she would take to her own grave.  She remembered the advice and could never tell her own fate and she thought it just as well.
Salisbury, Massachusetts ,1678 - 1679
It was a late September at George Carr’s home.  Doctor Crosby, the man who gave physic for James had just been seated.  George sat at the head of the table with his sons on his right and his daughters on the left.  George’s daughter Ann sat at the end next to her newly-wed husband Thomas Putnam Jr..  Another guest, Dr. Zerubbabel Endecott, a man in his forties took up the other end of the table next to Dr. Crosby, Doctor Griggs and Timothy Swan on a side and his sons and daughters on the other.
Dr. Endicott spoke, “What I tell you here you must be kept with all confidence.  The leaders of the people of Salisbury have fallen into deep transgression.  The likes of Major Pike and Captain Bradbury release prisoners defying us and giving comfort to our sworn enemies the Quakers.  The notorious Reverend Wheelwright also survives among them.  The also surround themselves with sagamores and are becoming more difficult to deal with.  I have heard Doctor Crosby’s account and it is clear that one of their women, Mary, is at the head of it all, taking away our business by practicing physic there.  They refuse to come to us now.  Not only this, they torment our patients with horrific spectres and curse our physic so that it can no longer avail itself according to its natural effect.”
“I have had no success in appealing to them for traffic, trade or relief of any kind.  She has a long grudge against me and is a crazed woman with many subtle and treacherous ways full of trickery which they’ve learned from those who were at Merry Mount.  Fortunately, we have extirpated many of their ilk.” spoke George in his persuasive and charming voice looking directly at Dr. Endicott, hoping he’d remember how his father dealt with Thomas Morton and hoping to create a guilt by association therewith.
Tom Putnam spoke next, “I say you should go up there to see them, test her wiles and we’ll see if these rumors are true.  Go together so there is no chance of mischief and for a witness against her.”  His wife Ann patted him in approval.
George looked at Richard, “You and I will go and spare James and John further trouble.  I feel enough time has past that there is good hopes of swaying them to our point of view.  I trust I can find a means of warning her.  A mother’s dearest prize is her children.  I’m now convinced we must ultimately deal with Mary as soon as that opportunity becomes available, that is, when she is without the company of Mr. Bradbury or her sons.”
Mary was cleaning up the pig pens, milking the cows, and helping her grandson Wymond Jr., “Wommy” in picking cherries and quince off the trees .  She went inside to churn the butter.  The wind started blowing hard and the lightning was starting to strike with torrential downpours that waved in one after the other.  Wymond Jr., only 9 years old came running in. “Grandma grandma! I saw a giant! He had red eyes and great teeth in the forest. And then it started to rain.”
“Hush Wommy, it’s nothing but the storm.”, she said comforting him and turning him over to Sarah his mother. As soon as Sarah replied, “Wymond, remember what I said about tall tales.”, Mary felt a lump in her throat like there was more to this.  There was a loud banging on the door like a knock, some whispers and the sound of footsteps running away. 
Mary went out and noticed paper was nailed to the door. Mary’s drew a loud gasp in shock. Her son’s widow, Sarah went up to her seeing her reaction.  Her hand covered her mouth.  There in a blackened blood was a drawing of a simple skull and crossbones and some crossed out initials all ending with B.  After staring at it, pale with shock, Sarah asked Mary in quivering voice, “Wha what does it mean?”
“It means, they are coming after me.” remarked Mary pointing at the initials.  Her initials M.B. were at the bottom with the biggest line drawn through it. The lines had a small cross on the end so that the cross-out resembled a dagger.  There were initials for everyone she could think of in her family.
Captain Bradbury came home later that evening and saw it. He tore it off the door and put it away in a box to keep as evidence.  
Three days later, there were bloody feathers strewn before the door.  Mary went through all her things, reading and researching frantically. She cleaned the rooms and asperged the room and burnt herbs and dried saps from the trees in a dish. 
A couple months later just before the big harvest feast, Captain Thomas rode in on horseback, quickly dismounted and swung open the door and slammed it again and stood there out of breath.
“Our son.. John...was found dead in his new home.”
Mary’s eyes well up with tears, her face quivering trying to hold back full sobs.  She sat motionless and stared.  Her eyes, bagged with sadness overflowed streams of her tears over her now wrinkled but soft cheeks.   She grabbed her husband’s arm.  He comforted her and while there was a smallpox outbreak being rumored, John’s body had shown no signs as they went to him and gave him his burial together.  William and Rebecca both showed up, her father Reverend Wheelwright gave the eulogy.  William mourned loudly for his brother. Now both his younger brothers were gone.  Rebecca and John Wheelwright tried to comfort him.  
Mary was still wearing her black dress and neckcloth day to day with a black veil when she got another notice.  It was the same paper, more blood and William’s name was crossed out with two daggers.  
The grass was frosty still on the December morning when Reverend Wheelwright returned with the dire news only a little over a week later, “William has died.”  Rebecca was not with him.  She was rumored to have caught illness and was sick in bed, her lungs were wheezing and she was running a fever.  She died only a few weeks later just before Christmas.  Mary offered to care for the five children left behind.  Reverend Wheelwright mentioned to her, “Mary, if there’s anything I could ever do to repay your kindness, it is done.”  Mary nodded from within her quiet sobs.
With Rebecca’s death came a blizzard so that the entire coast was deeply blanketed in snow.  Mary walked out in it’s powdery and glistening freshness in the light of the sun and breathed a long sigh.  The vision of the clean white banks before gave her a feeling of loneliness and peace all at once.  At night Mary went to her books and thumbed through the well worn book Cicero and The New Atlantis, Hamlet, The Holy Bible, Discoverie of Witchcraft, Ars Magna, De Heptarchia Mystica, and a book with alchemical symbols and Latin inscriptions and some books on science, medicine, herbs and her own writings.  As she rummaged through her chest, she saw something she hadn’t seen in years.  It was the small stained box with checker patterns on it with the family crest on it.  There was a small slip of paper.  Water had smeared most of the ink away.  Mary could  barely make out the last words: 

...family….will prevail.  
And when the queen is checked by knights a-pair
Then case will breach and rook will capture there.

She carried it with her in a pocket she had sewn inside her coat.  It seemed to rattle ever so softly. 
It was early April and the leaves and blossoms were filling the orchards again.  She thought how soon, there would be plenty of fruit to make pies with.  She looked out across her farm looking for her sheep, pigs, cows, horses and chickens. There were so few.  Most of them had gone to her children’s homes.  Tom had been busy at the meeting house that Sabbath.  As the sun reached the top of the sky marking the noon, Mary felt a buzzing feeling like a fly landing on her nose.  A cloud of dust and the clopping of trotting horses broke through the edge of the clearing. The road bent around the treeline and was now bearing a familiar face. George Carr is back to try and force my hand to be lenient to him. Mary thought to herself and then realized how alone she was there at home.  They were wearing their swords and wore the dress of their city’s militia and helms of metal.
“Mary!”, shouted George followed by Richard and  couple other riders following behind.
She felt danger in that overly cordial voice.  She went to the gate and quickly went inside.  She heard their horses pick up to a gallop.  Her heartbeat was pounding fast with the sound of the galloping.  Her head felt a rush and her ears muffled themselves in the pressure.  She put her hands in her pocket and held the box tightly.  The lid seemed to loosen.  She heard the sound of him laughing. 
“Hahaha, oh, Mary my dear, don’t be in such a rush!  The reputation of your hospitality is second to none, you wouldn’t want to lose that now would you?”, said George followed by Richard’s laughter. “Please come out and have a couple words with me please?” he called over still out of sight.  
Mary took the box out of her pocket. To her surprise, the lid flipped open on its own having been sealed for years. A long whispering wind sound came out of it.  It otherwise looked empty.  She closed it and saw the coat of arms of Francis Bacon with its red shield and boar cresting it.  She saw in her mind the boar charging. Under her breath she frantically petitioned her ancestors and angels to banish this danger. Her mind went suddenly dark and she felt like she was sliding out of her body. She opened her eyes to a blue light and a prickling sensation crawled over her.
George’s horse neighed loudly and a loud thud heard as the horse hit the dusty ground.  There was a loud commotion. 
“Father! Father!”
“George!”
“Are you hurt!?”
“What was that!”
“Did you see that?”
“What did you see?”
“It was blue. Fast. A boar, hairy fat and with ermine.”
“Did you see the tusks on that thing?”
“It was huge!”
“Change of plans.”
“Move!”
“She’s placed a guardian”
“It’s her phantom.”
“She changed into the boar and charged you father.”
“It’s her witchcraft.  I told you she was dangerous.”
“I’ll bring complaints against her to the court if that’s what it takes.”
“We saw it father.  We’ll go with you.”
“The scheming sorceress, she shall pay for her dark arts against us.”
Mary was safely away from them now.  She was inside behind the latched door.  She felt a dizziness.  In her mind’s eye, she could see herself taken over by a rage that matched her fear and saw herself running into a horse at its forelegs and knocking it.   Was it real? Protective magic? How could it be evil if it saved her.  
In the weeks to come, the rumors would spread all over Ipswich that Mary was a witch.  George told his family that Mary charged him, but not with her usual form. He claimed that as she went around a corner and about faced, in her place this blue boar came out and charged him, knocking him over. He claimed she had transformed into the boar. The same witch gossip all over again.  Most the people had heard this before and laughed it off.  But many of the doctors and others who held grudges or jealousies towards Mary took his account more seriously.
“Mary’s such a sweet lady, she couldn’t hurt a fly.”
“What do you mean a blue boar?”
“She’s always helping others and sacrificing to do so.  There’s no charge that she is consorted with the Devil or signed the book.”
“Always such quarrels and rumors.  Don’t speak unless you want to be suspected of being in league with that whole affair.”
“I don’t subscribe to that non-sense.”
Samuel Endicott came up with a story later after he came back from a voyage in the Caribbean that Mary had sold them bad butter and cursed their vessel.   
Massachusetts, 1680-1692
Mary now had four surviving daughters, three married off: Judith, Mary and Jane. Elizabeth her youngest was a becoming a spinster like her namesake, unmarried at the late age of 30.  The widow Sarah Pike and her three children were coming over and her new four orphans were staying with her, between three and eight years of age.  Tom was working hard to support her efforts.  She made some money churning butter and going into town to sell it and then picking up recruits.  By then, it seemed the rumors were flying again and she even had people approaching her to teach them white magic and theurgy.  They didn’t always have the best of intentions.  
A woman named Goodwife Sibley came over to visit one day for which Mary had prepared a private consulting area.
“Goodwife Bradbury, my husband John, I feel like he’s being taken away from me by another and she appeareth to me to work evil and has familiarity with the Devil.  I need a spell to detect the witch.  I want to destroy her and claim him back.”
“I don’t know any spells I trust on that. I can’t perform any for you.  I can only tell you the things I know.”
“I don’t care how, I just want power.”
“Have you been a good friend to him, a listening ear, a help to him?  You can also ask him to help you.  A man loves who he serves good or bad after all.”
“I tried that already.  Please tell me a spell.  I know you can work them.  How do you detect a witch?  Do you know about witch cake?”
“Why do you want to know?”
“I must know if my husband is bewitched or not.”
“It’s simple enough.  Take his waters and mix with rye meal and bake it.  Then feed it to your dog.  If the dog rolls around on the ground, or has fouled temper, then it may be that someone has tampered with your husband, otherwise, the dog will favor the scent of his master and his mate. Tell it to no one.  It is meant for the master and his dog only.  The next time the malevolent witch,  is present, he will do the same as if he ate the cake. If it only be a witch doctor or physic true for ailment, then the dog will avoid the cake.  The good doctor knows that the antidote is bitter to take, the mischievous doctor will sweeten his poison for his victim.  Be wise and not carefree in doing this and it will surely work.  Never feed it to a human or take it yourself or you will endanger them.”
“Thank you Mrs. Bradbury.”
Mary suddenly felt a side stitch of pain.  It was a familiar pain that meant there was something amiss in the virtue of her teaching.  This Goodwife Sibley had more power she wanted to use and was not fully honest and trying her.  Something about her namesake niece would vex her over this and something she might do to misuse it would cause trouble, she thought to warn her fairly but it was meant for her to know in the great scheme of things.
Every week would pass and Mary Bradbury would see Mary Sibley there hoping to learn from her.  “Do you know a love potion?  Can you show me how to turn into a beast?  I’m working on a spell but I need magic.  I need power.  Can I get it from the demons or something else? I want something very powerful.  I rather have demons than angels. ”
Mary grew tired of replying that she didn’t follow those paths.  Mary Sibley was obsessed with power to the point, Mary avoided her but she showed up to class.  One day during class, Mary took out one of her homemade books full of translations and read all of them a story.  Mary Warren was with Mary Sibley along with her children and other children in her family.  Mary read in her usual slow voice adding pauses to keep them listening in suspense as she was used to:
The Witch, the Glass and the Wayward Pupil
A witch was approached one bright and sunny day by a young pupil who had sought her out because of her reputation for great power. But when he saw her, he was extremely disappointed because she was fumbling around slowly and seemingly haphazardly through old papers with a big old eccentric looking glass. He thought to himself, "My word, she can barely see! It must be I am too late and she is already past her time. How can this old fool be a powerful witch? I've come this far, I will show her and test her with a demanding question. If she be worthy of me, I will then obtain more learning and power from her."
After a cordial introduction, he finally asked, "What can I do to obtain great power? I do not care the consequences, I do not care to study. I just want something that will work. I know you can do this because you have studied long and are renowned for your greatness. Please teach me something quickly and I will bother you no more."
To which the wise madam replied:
"One can more easily understand power by understanding those things that are a simulacrum of it. Take for example this looking glass. (The pupil was already rolling his eyes just out of her view.) You could say that it has power by virtues of its clarity and smoothly curved form but it's only by moving it the proper distance, positioning it and focusing it that you are able to realize it. Not only that, you must have patience before anything will burn under its brightness. Those who fail to understand the power of the glass often try to use it forcefully. They push the glass against their objective with undesirable results. In frustration some even smash it thinking it would not work without greater force. The end result of their effort is usually broken glass and no power. I have done as you requested, you may bother me no more."
"Is that it?!" thought the pupil, feeling very nonplussed and scowling in contempt. But before he could open his mouth to complain he felt a rather sudden and piercing burning sensation on his foot. Upon jumping up and down and shouldering his bags, he left in great haste and confusion. In his flight away from the witch the pupil was finally enlightened.  The End.

After class, Mary stomped forward with a scowl on her face: “Trying to tell me something?”
“Goodwife Sibley , I can make butter for you.  I can make salve.  I know what people say but no, I will not teach you how to get power.  You will bring a great curse upon yourself.  Those who seek power are almost never worthy of it.  Those who avoid power will doubtless attract it.  Remember that and when you have lost all power and lust for power, then please do come back.”
Mrs Sibley left in a huff.  “Well, if you will not help me.  I will find someone else who will.  You’re a fraud Mary.  You have no power and I will prove it!  Just try to stop me.”
Salem, Massachusetts, 1692
It was a cold February morning in Salem.  Mary Sibley, grey and black hair covered in bonnet and wearing her neckcloth and and a black dress went to visit Samuel Parris who lived right by her to see for herself the problem of their bewitchment and to offer assistance by means of her craft of physic.  
She saw soon enough for herself that the girls were in a delirium, screaming and clenching their fists.  Mary saw Tituba, a slave of Reverend Parris tending to the girls when they came out of it.  Some of the girls even shouted at Mary when she got close to her.  They snarled like beasts.
“Goodwife Sibley , is there no physick I can give them?  My Betty is only a child.  There are only nine years she has passed.  I trust you are familiar with the warding of witchcraft?”, groaned Reverend Parris ending in whining.
“I am familiar with it Reverend, for it takes a knowledge of their Arts to defeat their Arts.  Know for certain that I only use this knowledge to defeat them and not to practice against anyone.”, said Mrs Sibley .
“I cannot be seen associated with this, this abominable trade, even though you work it for good, I want no one’s eyes to see me with it as I am a holy man called of God to teach his flock..”
Mary was distraught that Reverend Parris would not let her work straight away.  She saw Tituba’s husband, John Indian at the table that evening.  On the way home, Mary found John Indian again but helping Tituba clean up.  She went over intent on giving him the remedy since she could not do so herself or get near the girls. 
“Mr. John Indian.”
“Goodwife Sibley, what matter do you have?”
“I saw your wife, Tituba helping the girls.  She can get near them but I cannot, yet, I know something a friend told me long ago that could bring light to whether the girls be cursed or not.”
“What do you want from me?”
“I only wish to tell you that which can help the girls.  Either you or your good wife could perform this and then let me know if it has any efficacy.  Do you want to know it?”
“I want to know it if it will help these girls and my wife find favor in her master’s eyes.  He is a stern man and stubborn as well.  If you have something for that, I would trade you all my tobacco for it.” he said as he was smoking his long pipe.
“Here it is then, take rye meal and the waters of these girls and mix it well and bake it.  Feed it to a dog.  If the dog fusses, they are indeed bewitched.  If the dog turns away, it is only the work of our Mother in nature and our Lord.  If indeed the dog sees the witch again, it will make the same fuss as it did before.  Did you take a full understanding of it John?”
“Yes Madam.”
The next day, Tituba collected the urine from Betty and her cousin Abigail to make the cakes and she explained it all to them as they were calm at the time.  The baking of it made a great stench in the home much to the family’s disliking.  It gave the girls another fit.  John Indian fed it to their dog.  Sure enough, the dog started to growl after eating the cake.  The dog barked at Tituba and the girls together.  This was enough for Reverend Parris who watched in awe.
At church, Reverend Parris gave his speech.  “Do not suffer a witch to live.”.  
Thomas Putnam went to Reverend Parris with his wife Ann and their daughter Ann.  Ann was having the same fits.  
“Why have you allowed this Reverend?  Are you not a pastor? Is not a pastor a caretaker of the flock?”
Reverend Parris whimpered a bit and shrugged.  
“My daughter Ann is now bewitched and so is the Hubbard girl.  You have preached to us the truth.  Do not suffer a witch to live!  It is therewith your duty to find who has done this and not suffer them to live but take them to trial if you will not suffer it yourself.”
“Betty?  Who did this to you?”
“It was Tituba, it is she who did it to me.”
Reverend Parris brought Tituba back in the room. He beat her with a long stick, caning her back, legs and face.  Tituba thought her nose might have been broken but her cheekbone seemed to have cracked and the skin over it drew blood.  Reverend Parris had brought them in from his beautiful plantation in Barbados.  The embarrassment Reverend Parris seemed to continually draw was always taken out on her.
“Did not the dog bark at you?”
“He does that always to me Good Reverend. He barks at everyone who comes in the home.”
“But he is not barking now, it was for the cause of those cakes you made, was it not?”
“Yes, Good Reverend  I made it to detect the witch.”
“But it is by your folly and the betrayal of the Devil that he has not covered your deeds.  It is written that the devil will forsake his own.  Just confess it?  Why did you bewitch my girls?  If you were working white magic, they would not still be bewitched!”
“Master, I beg you, let me tell you, let the girls tell you who the witches are. They will tell you that I am not alone.  Killing me will not end their curse nor allow me to tell you who did this to your daughters.  I’m sorry!  I’m sorry I bewitched them!”
Reverend Parris got the names of Sarah Good and Sarah Osborne and because of the advice of Thomas Putnam and company, they were arrested and jailed the next day.  From this teapot, a tempest brewed and more of Ann’s friends went on to denouncing others.  Mercy Lewis, Mary Walcott, Mary Warren, Elizabeth Hubbard joined.  Ann felt a sudden surge of power.  Her father and mother whispered in her ear and suggested names.  During the month’s head, the news of Salem went far and wide.  Martha Corey, old Rebecca Nurse, all friends and customers of Mary no longer showed up.  Mary wept bitterly when she heard what Mary Walcott had done.  Mary was Mary Sibley’s niece by marriage. She refused to talk to her from thenceforth and took to praying and petitioning for mercy on these ladies.  Her family regularly prayed for them and there was a lot of discontent raised against the courts in Salem over it but these were ignored.  John Hathorne and Jonathan Corwin turned their ears deaf to them.  
Over the course of the next week, more news arrived by way of Abraham Perkins.  Samuel Brabrook was deputized as a Marshal in Salem.  He had arrested a four year old girl, Dorothy Good, daughter of Sarah and William.  
Mary knew who was behind it and that she had already been labeled a witch by them.  She wondered if it would only be a matter of time when their attention would turn to her.  Mary still snuck to the prison one day to give Sarah and Dorothy food.  Sarah was pregnant.  Each time she visited, she knew the deputies were reporting her visit.  The next time she came, she was turned away and made to go back home with the food.  The shadow of evil there was dense.  She was blocked at every turn and frustrated.  It was there her grandmother, Isabelle appeared and whispered to her mind in the evening.  Mary, do not blame yourself.  Continue to work but beware the evil there.  Take courage, you will still have a hand in helping to save many.  Do not revile against your enemies as they will use it against you.  Set your example and influence around you.  I will show you what you need to see when it is expedient for you.
 Mary received word that George Burroughs, the former Salem minister and good man was arrested along with the Proctors.  George tried to escape but they gave him chase and were able to spy and jail him back in Boston.  By May, the word came out that the Governor Phips had stacked the courts to hear the cases.  The Court of Oyer and Terminer was created and assigned, leaving out all rational and cool minds and putting in those hotheads, Hathorne and Corwin in charge of the whole thing. It was only a few days later, in early June that the sixty-year old widow of Thomas Oliver, Bridget Bishop was tried and convicted and sentenced to death, all in one day.  
Only two days later, the tenth day of June, she was hung.  Nathaniel Saltonstall, one of the resigned and Corwin took over his duties.  While he was a hothead, he was also principled.  Hathorne commented as he was leaving, “He sickened me.  Too weak for the errand of the Lord.  All the better that Jonathan Corwin take his place at my side.”
Thomas and Mary were saddened but not surprised.
“I knew this would happen.” said Mary woefully, “I knew Thomas and Bridget were quarrelsome as a couple but she was no witch! The only thing she did know was their business.”
“She was an easy target.  Everyone saw her as a black widow and loud mouth.  I had told her to keep her mouth shut in public but she and Mr. Oliver had to drag it all about in public.”
“Do you think the Carrs or Putnams were upset about the money Thomas Oliver left her or the fact she’d marry his brother and continue to gain from it?”
“I do in fact think that this is what it’s all about.  She would now have little claim on anything that they now couldn’t take away.  Her children would either marry hers or lose their inheritance.  They’re shrewd enough a family to get away with trying to use the courts and witchcraft to take out their debtors, their competition and those who they think got away with their moneys.  They’re greedy little sharks.  I pray the Lord forgive me for what I now think.  I should cease and keep silent and keep hope.  I am far too likely to get embroiled in this given what I know about them.  We’re safely far away from it for now, but I feel it’s only a matter of time before they come back to us.  They know it will be harder so they’ll have to use everything we can.”
“I heard it was little Ann Putnam, you know, Ann Carr’s daughter?”, replied Tom.
“She’s but a thirteen year old, older than the other girls.  They’re working her alight.  I wonder if George or Thomas are giving her names.”
“That reminds me, did you keep the hogs tied up today?”, replied Tom.
“Those little pigs are smart and can escape just about anything.  I did the best I could.”
July came around and news came about that Sarah Good had delivered and lost her daughter in prison, appropriately but hopelessly named Mercy.  Mary’s eyes were starting to look like continual tear fountains.  The only joy she took was in teaching and helping others avoid the fate of being accused by counseling them and helping them avoid detection.  Countless people were accused of being witches in those days.   But it seemed it mattered little if one was a witch or not anymore.  If those girls received the whispers in their ears about you, you would be a witch regardless of what you could do or how old you were.  If it seemed they could stoke your anger with ease, they would give it a full go.  Only weeks later, on the nineteenth day of July Sarah Good and four others were hanging in Boston.  All of them good people. 
***
Samuel Endicott sat at a desk, flipping through the book of his father’s with the usual pretentious long title doctors then liked to use, Synopsis Medicinae or a Compendium of Galenical and Chymical Physick Showing  the Art of Healing according to the Precepts of Galen & Paracelsus Fitted universally to the whole Art of Healing . The book was full of dark potions full of animal dismemberments, folk magic and witchcraft itself. Timothy Swann sat across from him with a wide creased grin and dark eyes, looking youthful except for his wrinkled face.  He smoked a pipe taking a puff frequently.  He coughed viciously every five minutes.
“Ironic is it not?”
“What is?” he asked coughing up a lung right there at the sudden need to now speak.
“I have none of my father’s skill as a physick and yet I have and will accomplish everything he set out to do.  Purge the land of miscreants.  Do you think someday I could be like grandfather?” asked Samuel.
“The governor?  Of course, it’s always a process of small moves, each one forward, removing the obstacles in the way.  That obstacle is almost always a person who does not deserve to be there.” said Tim in his suave tone.  Tim was tall, dark of hair, handsome and also completely sadistic.  His chosen apparel was dark all through and appropriate for his demeanor.
“The current governor is a fool.  No worries, he’ll be replaced soon.  I have an errand for you having to do with the Bradburys.  A court date has already been planned.” snarled Samuel.
“Captain Bradbury owes me.  He broke my scythe.  I don’t like the one he replaced it with.  He says it’s just as sharp but it looks older and I don’t think it cuts as well as my old one.  So do I have your word that Richard Carr will renew on the Merrimack River deal with me?”, Tim asked innocently.
“You barely need my help, you can work the courts better than old George Carr could, but I will be talking with him soon about this.  I’ll talk to him about the timber delivery you owe him.” answered Samuel.
“I don’t need the courts to settle everything.  I’ll just have my boys go around and burn their barns.” bragged Tim.
“You’re also just like your father Tim.”
“He was a ruffian.  I just added polish.  Father once tore down and burned fences, beheaded a hundred chickens and plucked out 146 apple trees.  I’m still trying to top that one.  I did take some barking dogs and hang them last week.  I have the worst neighbors imaginable. Luckily, the owners were away and left them alone.” and after all that he ran out of breath and coughed loudly into a handkerchief.
“Tim, you’re ill and it’s that bitch Mary’s fault.  You have every right to hang her.  All you have to do is sign some papers here and we’re set.” pleased Samuel.
Tim gave the papers a lookover and signed them, all of them going over how Mary Bradbury afflicted him and tormented him.
“Can you think of anything I can add Tim?  Mary has no direct male heirs left. Five out of six sons of Captain Bradburys are dead and the last one is a sodomite who will die without posterity.” retorted Samuel.
Timothy read a few of them and laughed.  “I have a few suggestions but I’ll save those for later. I worry our lame and useless Governor Phips might interrupt our progress in exterminating the vermin out of our midst.  The spoils might not seem much.  The church ministers will step in and debate it as they usually do.”
“I figure I’ll soon have to confront Mary face to face and she is not easy to deal with.  Every work I try against her backfires.  I will employ new dark efforts to seal this bargain with my master.”
***
The birds were chirping a little louder than usual outside.  The perched over the new tender branches overlooking Mary Bradbury’s gardens. The garden walls looked covered with a giant green lace with their tall vines running along trellises that wove intricate patterns that  Thomas had put together.  The peas had shot up early.  The sun shone through dew drops which slowly receded away.  Mary’s bones were aching but stood there envisioning the herb garden perennials coming back.  The trees were showing new green on the ends of their branches, their spring flower petals creating a walkway around them. 
Several thuds and a man’s voice was heard in the distance ever so faintly but nonetheless did not prevent the birds fluttering away.  Springy branches rained their last dew on the grasses below. The yells of a coachman and squeaky coach could be heard now in the distance.  She went inside feeling that the bad omens she had staved away were finally making their appearance.  Her heart sunk and the feeling of a swarm of butterflies and a nest of rattlers filled her entire being.  She sat there looking blankly.  There was no time to run or escape or find a place.  Tom sensed her nervousness and heard the sound.  He strapped on his boots and walked out to the front court of his home watching and gritting his teeth as they neared.
Finally as the horses stopped a well dressed man in a frilly shirt and heavy coat stepped down from his seat and walked up to them, stirring dust with his heavy boots.  Two younger men in sergeant uniforms accompanied him.  The stepped down to hold the horse reins.  His grey hair was pulled tightly back into a black ribbon typically seen of professional coachmen.  His bony face and eye sockets betrayed a kind of wiry strength of the well-worked under his vestments.  
“Constable Neale, what are you doing here at my home this fine day?” asked Tom, his hair still unruly from the last night’s slumber.
The constable’s stolid voice and face bespake the gravity of his message:  “By the authority of the Court of Essex for our Sovereign Lord and Lady, the King and Queen, I am ordered to take Mary Bradbury to Ipswich gaol to await further examination and questioning. Will she come peaceably and without resistance Captain?”
Mary crestfallen from the morning’s usual springtime gaiety answered, “I shall go Tom.”
Tom looked around in desperation, jaw dropped to the ground in disbelief.  Two men stepped forward with Tom clenching his fists but unable to move. Anger flushed through his face and adrenaline started to shake him as if he had just finished a bout of fisticuffs. 
They bound her hands in rope and she stumbled and began to complain of the tightness and begged, “I plead with you gentlemen, I say, slacken these cords will you?”
To no avail, they stared ahead only mercifully walking a little slower than usual but otherwise ignoring her coldness neither of them had seen towards them before. Tom was used to being well esteemed by all officers and militia in his company. Tom scolded them,  “I’m ordering you to slacken her cords!”
They didn’t heed him either. Tom started to run after them. Constable Neale pulled him back. In a matter of seconds, the man flew back with his nose bleeding and Tom was running towards her. He came up behind him to lock him from behind around his neck and pulled him to the ground. After the two men had locked Mary inside the coach, they came over to incapacitate him. Constable Neale slugged him in the belly knocking his wind out. Tom’s fight wore quickly from his own struggle with age but he fought so wildly that he was sure he had dislocated most of his limb joints in the fight. Fortunately however for Captain Bradbury, his rank deterred them from taking any formal actions against him or he could have found himself locked up as well if he were their detainee. They also half expected this to happen knowing Captain Bradbury as a very persistent and proud fisted man but who was also easily subdued at his age.
Tom woke up on dry earth outside his home, dirt coating his tongue which he spat out upon tasting it. He realized he had incapacitated Mary’s own defense by insisting she not use any supernal abilities. He wept, rolling around, cursing himself and beating his head with his hands at his error. He looked up woefully to the horizon in hopes he could spot her. 
Tom spent his mornings alone, angry and adamantly determined to raise a fight against this.  He mounted his black steed Shadow and galloped full speed to Major Pike’s home. 
“Tom, I can’t break your anger over this. In fact, I advise you not to but I must break this rashness that has come over you if you are to save your dear wife Mary.”
“I don’t care what it takes now. If this is God’s way, then I’m afraid it is the Devil I side with.”
“Don’t say that to anyone else Tom. I don’t want to lose two beloved family friends this year. We’ve suffered enough loss.”
“You don’t understand! She was the only one in this world I would trust to stop this madness and now what hope do we have?! This is my fault. I should be arrested and she should be released.”
“Cool your head Tom. We will do what it takes. The Good Lord has given us tests in life and will deliver us if we ask and devote ourselves to His Truth and Reason.”
“Rob, I would do anything but that means anything to free Mary.”
“Patience and we will win this fight Tom.”
A month passed, Tom had been going to visit Mary in jail and getting advice from Major Pike every day. His children and grandchildren were staying with him to relieve him of his usual chores and tried to comfort him. This was a surprising amount of support compared to what he was used to..  Mary and Tom were used to sacrificing everything for their children and now he saw them returning the favor.  They all offered advice, ideas and stratagem for working out Mary’s release putting trust in God as they had all become very devoutly attendant to their church services.  Tom went to Salem to the court and finally was able to view the notice which listed the reasons for her imprisonment:

George Herrick v. Mary Bradbury, Sarah Rice, Wilmott Reed, and Elizabeth Fosdick
May 26th 1692 
Beeing at Salem village w'th Constable Josp Neale the persons under written was afflicted much and Complain- ed ag'st viz Mary Walcott Ann Putnam upon Capt Bradberys wife of Salsbury & Mary Walcott Ann Putnam: mrs Marshall upon Goodwife Rice of Reding & Mary Walcott ann Puttnam Marcy Lewis upon Goodwife Read of Marblehead & Mary Walcott Marcy Lewis Ann Puttnam upon Goody Fosdick the same woemen tells them that shee afflicts mr Tufts Negro

Tom’s ire grew at the reading and re-reading of the notice. He soon realized that he might seriously hurt Mary’s case if he were to lash out in complaint against this justice forsaken institution. His limits were pushed overboard however when he saw this notice:
Be it here known that Governor Phipps has, under the Dyvine Rights of our Lord and Lady’s Majesty, our King and Queen, henceforth from this day, the twenty-seventh of May, commissioned a Court of Oyer and Terminer in the township of Salem for the hearing and determining of Justice due these many cases here before us which do demand our diligence and Faithfulness and in so doing also hereby appoint by said commission nine Just men to sit in the court thereof as Judges to act on behalf of our Lord and Lady in all holiness and righteousness and sworn by oath over God’s sacred Words, the Holy Bible., Be they also given the rights to swear jurors for the invest of these cases as come before the court to diligently inquire after all cases of treason, felony ... 

Tom could tell rest would be a standard legal gibberish that basically endowed some of the most intolerant men in power even greater authority for what he could see was a clear move to convict and execute all those imprisoned. The assistant Governor Stoughton he had heard was particularly rigid. His virtue was impartial execution of the law, if you could call “Shoot first and ask questions later” impartial.  He was clueless when it came to understanding and interpreting the law or showing good judgment. Many people were fearful that his black and white thinking would guarantee them that all accusations, spurious or not would be given automatic guilty verdicts.  Tom gulped what felt like his own throat as he saw that name.  He would soon find out his fears were over-tempered by his hopes for justice.