The Courthouse was a tall and narrow structure like that of a plantation home for a single man among the city’s hovels.
The letters on the sign were already fading from the rain. The rain was a welcome relief from the hot sun in early July.  The trials first victim, Bridget Bishop had been executed by hanging last month. The day had come for Mary’s examination/hearing from which indictments, investigations and trials would likely be made. 
Tom entered the dim candlelit courtroom to see, on the right side of the court, the accusers: Thomas Putnam Jr, his wife Anne Carr Putnam, their daughter Ann Jr., a young puffy-faced teen whose eyes were already red with crying and some of the other townsfolk of Salem with their daughters, among them Mary Walcott, an older teen, along with her father John Walcott, a widower of several years, her maternal uncle Samuel Sibley and his wife, Aunt Mary Sibley. Tom felt a burning anger seeing Mary Sibley there since he heard from Mary what she threatened her with. Goody Sibley with the Carrs now? 
He looked for his wife on the left side benches. He saw families but none of the accused themselves. He walked up and found the closest seat to them on a bench unoccupied and sat there. He could overhear voices behind him. Every comment he believed held a possible clue as to what the outcome might be. A lady's voice behind him whispered not so quietly, "Finally some law and order around here!"  Tom fumed at the hearing of it as he hoped for a better sign. The clerk announced Judge Sewall would be presiding. His face was soft and rounded. Tom didn't know him that well but hoped there was some kindness underlying his demeanor. There was little else to go on. A sheriff soon walked Mary in and kept her standing. As she came in, the girls started to groan, screech and yell at random in a cacophonous stream of protests, Ann Putnam and Mary Walcott were chief among them: 
"Hell fire it burns!"
"Deliver me from her dear Lord!"
"Stop Miss Bradbury."
"Stop tormenting me!"
"Miss Bradbury! Miss Bradbury! No!"
"Leave us!"
"She's choking me!"
"Look not upon us!"
"Her gaze it tears my flesh apart!"
"Take her thither! Away from here please! Go! Please go!"
Mary turned to face away but then looked at them and they started to go into fits. Every time she even glanced over, they would start up again. 
Judge Sewall tried to stop them in graduating pleas of "Stop this noise!" and finally, "Sheriff, take Mrs Bradbury out."
"Will those who claim or speak for those who claim injuries by Mrs. Bradbury please step forward?"
"Who speaks for those injured by Mrs. Bradbury?"
Thomas Putnam Jr. stepped around the group of girls strewn about the floor. "I do your Honor."
"Your name for the court?"
"Thomas Putnam, Jr."
"What matter do you bring to the court?"
"I have complaint from John Bibber, my daughter, and Mary Walcott."
"Will John Bibber take the stand?"
A young farmer stepped around the girls strewn over the floor. 
"Your name?"
"John Bibber."
"What do you do Mr. Bibber."
"I am a husbandman."
"What have you to speak before this court?"
"When my wife, Sarah, saw Mary Bradbury, just now, she got violently ill and shook like she was being tortured just like she did yesterday. She hasn't eaten in days. Now I know who it is that has done this."
"How long has this been going on good husband?"
"She was been in pain all times of the day for a long time ever since she went out and saw Mrs. Bradbury at the market. Since she complained that the Devil was tormenting her with pain and she sees a woman that she saw earlier that day coming after her to kill her."
Tom Putnam Jr revived his daughter Ann and Mary Walcott with a touch and they both came to and stood up slowly. The rest of the girls were still writhing. The judge taking notice motioned them forward in a fatherly way. "Miss Putnam, would you give the names of these girls here afflicted?"
"Mary Walcott." The judge motioned to the clerk indicating she should speak slow enough for him to record as Ann continued, "Elizabeth Hubbard, Elizabeth Booth, Mercy Lewis" 
"That will do. Who speaks for Mrs. Bradbury?"
"Captain Bradbury your Honor." 
The clerk continued frantically scribbling and crossing out.  The judge ordered Mary back out again and sure enough, the girls went into fits and wailing again. 
After so much needless review of the case, the clerk passed a nod to the judge that enough was there to write proper indictments with. Mary went back to jail and court was dismissed until later in the same month when Tom could finally respond. 
***
The 21st of July was a record hot Monday in Salisbury. At the Bradbury home, Tom was sitting at his table, a makeshift desk really piled up with papers. Tom Jr ran inside shouting through gasps from being out of breath, “They killed them!”
“Who killed ...who?”
“The executioners in Salem hung at least five women just days ago on Gallows Hill.”
“Who?”
“Rebecca Nurse, Susannah Martin, Elizabeth Howe, Sarah Good, Sarah Wildes.”
Tom Sr. looked out the window, his lips quivering and holding back sobs which streamed silently from his eyes instead. More bad omens. Rebecca Nurse was about Mary’s age. He got up and walked to his bed and shut the door behind him. Tom Jr could hear his father weeping in agonizing sorrow within the dark recesses in the corner where his bedroom door stood.
Hours later, that night, a bloodshot Tom Sr walked back into the room greeted by a larger gathering of his family. Seeing them all, he announced, “Do not fear, do not lose faith. We will petition everyone in this city to testify to our dear Mary’s good name.” Tearful smiles nodded wistfully back at him. He ambled to his desk, lit the candle thereupon and straightway started composing a petition. At the local congregational church where the Bradbury’s regularly went, he got Reverend Allen to spare him some time to  circulate a petition to endorse Mary’s character. He didn’t stop there.  He got names off the church rolls and the city map and rode door to door collecting signatures from anyone who opened their door to him. He hoped to get at least a hundred signatures but was pleased to have gotten well over that. It read:

Deposition for Mary Bradbury
July 22, 1692
Concerning Mrs Bradbury’s life and conversation, we the subscribers do testify that it was such as became the gospel she was a lover of the ministry in all appearance and a diligent attender upon God’s holy ordinances, being of a courteous and peaceable disposition and caring. Neither did any of us (some of whom have lived in the town with her above fifty years) ever hear or know that she ever had any difference or falling out with any of her neighbors; man, woman, or child; but was always ready and willing to do for them what lay in her power night and day, though with hazard of 
her health or other danger….
Under that were the signatures of hundreds of family heads and their wives and a variety of individuals as well. He continued to visit Mary in jail every day. Together they sat together to compose their answers against what he knew would be an indictment of witchcraft.
The 28th of July was unbearably hot and muggy Monday in Salisbury. At the Bradbury home, Tom was sitting at his table which was piled high with papers he was either working on or had collected.  He had earlier gone into Salisbury town center to pick up notices and mail. Sure enough, he had a docket with a couple indictments as he had expected. One of them contained the standard accusations of being afflicted during the examination, the other one however contained a new accusation that Mary’s spectre had afflicted a Timothy Swann:
“The jurors for our Sovereign Lord and Lady, the King and Queen do present that Mary Bradbury, Wife of Captain Thomas bradbury of Salisbury, in the County of Essex entered upon the Twenty-Sixth day of July in the year aforesaid and divers other days and times as well before as after certain detestable arts called witchcraft and sorceries wickedly, maliciously and feloniously hath used, practiced and exercised at and in the township of Andover in the County of Essex aforesaid in upon and against one Timothy Swann of Andover in the county aforesaid husbandman, by which said wicked acts the said Timothy Swann upon the 26th day of July aforesaid and divers other days and times both before and after was and is tortured, afflicted, consumed, pined, wasted and tormented and also for sundry other acts of witchcraft by the said Mary Bradbury committed and done before and since that time against the peace of our Sovereign Lord and Lady the King and Queen, their crown and dignity and the form of the statute in that case made and provided,” 

Tom reviewed the statement he prepared with Mary’s help and his own alongside the petition he had worked on earlier. Mary’s read:

July the 28: 1692
I do plead - not guilty. I am wholly innocent of any such wickedness through the goodness of God that have kept me hitherto.  I am the servant of Jesus Christ and have given myself up to him as my only Lord and Savior and to the diligent attendance upon him in all his holy ordinances, in utter contempt and defiance of the devil, and all his works as horrid and detestable and accordingly have endeavored to frame my life and conversation according to the rules of his holy word, and in that faith and practice resolve by the help and assistance of God to continue to my life’s end: for the truth of what I say as to matter of practice I humbly refer myself to my brethren and neighbors that know me and unto the searcher of all hearts for the truth and uprightness of my heart therein: (human frailties and unavoidable infirmities excepted) of which I bitterly complain every day.”

Tom turned the leaf to read his own statement next:

July the 28: 1692
Concerning my beloved wife Mary Bradbury this is that I have to say: we have been married fifty five years: and she hath been a loving and faithful wife to me, unto this day she hath been wonderful  laborious diligent and industrious in her place and employment, about the bringing up of our family (which have been eleven children of our own and four grandchildren: She was both prudent and provident.  Of a cheerful spirit liberally charitable: she being now very aged and weak, and grieved under her affliction may not be able to speak much for herself, not being so free of speech as some others may be: I hope her life and conversation hath been such amongst her neighbours as gives a better and more real testimony of her, than can be expressed by words owned by me.   
Thomas Bradbury

Tom then leafed his statement over and read the Summons they had copied out for all those he would have to defend against. Thomas Putnam Jr. was a formidable opponent in the courtroom. He knew he would have to work overtime to deal with him. Judge Sewall had sent this out. He hoped he would get another judge, someone who might give him more time on the floor to make his case.

Summons for Witnesses

William and Mary by the Grace of God of England Scotland France and Ireland, King and Queen defenders of the faith and company, to : 

Thomas Ring of Amesbury or Salisbury
Timothy Swann of Andover 
Richard Carr & James Carr of Salisbury

Greetings. We command  you all excuses set apart to be and personally appear at the Next Court of Oyer & Terminer holden at Salem 

On Tuesday Next at Twelve of the Clock or as soon after as possible there to testify the truth on Several Indictments to be Exhibited against Mrs Mary Bradbury and  other prisoners to be tried for the horrible Crime of Witchcraft, hereof make return fail not. 

Dated in Salem September 5th 1692 & in the fourth year of Our Reign 

To the Sheriff of Essex or Constables of :
Andover, Haverill, Salisbury, Amesbury, Bradford or Newbury.
Stephen Sewall Clerk 

Zerubbabel. Endecott
Sam. Endecott 
James Carr 
Richard Carr 
Timothy Swan 
Joseph Ring 

Tom noticed how the list of names seemed to grow. Thomas Putnam Jr.’s work no doubt to stack as many people in the court against Mary as possible. Revenge was a bitter foe and one more intensely evil than anything every witch he had ever known had done.
The month of August was a long and bitterly torrid one. Tom had sweat through piles of handkerchiefs over long days of visits to the Ipswich gaol, the courthouses and potential supporting witnesses. He wanted to obtain a surprise witness so he went to the town ordinaries often to listen to the daily problems of Ipswich and Salisbury folks hoping to hear of dissents within the ranks of the Carr, Putnam and Endicott families. 
Halfway through August on an overcast and muggy day in Ipswich, Tom rode up to the gaol and hitched his tired steed and let him drink. He was such a regular visitor, the guards would wave him through. 
“Tom!” Mary’s face lit up as it always did. While her cell was better than most, her loneliness was a painful one nearing six months. 
“I have been working all day on getting you out of this rat’s nest.”
“It’s no use Tom, I’m an aged woman well past my time for death. This is my lot in life.”
“No. You’re not just any aged woman. You’re Mary Perkins.”
“Save the others then.”
“If I could, I would. Major Pike is trying to convince Increase Mather of the evils of all this. Mary, I want to unbind you from your oath. I want you to practice your love for God the way you see fit. If it is not malicious, it is in your purview and your God given freedom to devote yourself the ways he gives you, not anyone else.”
On Tuesday the 19th of August, more bad news arrived. One more goodwife and several of the colony’s prominent men had been executed on Gallows Hill. Among them were: Martha Carrier, George Jacobs Sr., George Burroughs, John Willard and John Proctor. George Burroughs had been a good friend of his who lived up in Wells Maine. The warrant for his arrest had been a tricky one for the constables to execute. He was reputedly strong and slippery but even he was not spared. His heart sank in the despairing thought of it momentarily but he decided to keep his hopes up through his own efforts and schemes. He had powerful connections and a powerful wife too-- if  only he could just release her from the obligation to avoid the appearances of magic.
On Friday the 5th of September a great rainstorm blew through Salem. The roads become little ponds between the knolls. Inside the Court of Oyer and Terminer, Mary was lead to the accused’s seat once again and Tom was there with his friend Major Pike and his family to present a better show of numbers in the courtroom. Judge Sewall was there again, in a more sour mood than he was last time. 
“Major Pike, I take it you will be presenting the case for Mary Bradbury today?”
“Yes your Honor.”
“I read the petition and the answer to the indictments and while these are all noteworthy, are there any ecclesiastic or expert testimonies for the character of Mrs. Bradbury given in their own words?”
“There are not, but if this is to be a fair and just trial, then the investigation has not concluded. I know there are those who would provide such a testimony that the court has requested here.”
Judge Sewall wrung his hands and looked over at the accused side. Many of the witnesses summoned did not show. “Mr. Putnam, how many are with you to witness today?”
Thomas Putnam Jr. held the hand of his young teenage daughter Ann who looked at the Bradburys in disgust and the hand of his wife Ann Sr. on his left. 
“The storm kept many of them away your Honor. I move that we try the date of September 9th, two days from now.”
“Court is adjourned,” as the judge pounded the gavel, albeit, more gently than usual.
After visiting his wife in jail, Tom went to the home of James Allen the reverend to obtain an ecclesiastic expert testimony for his wife. Major Pike and his brother John also added their testimonies.  They signed their names and mutually witnessed it at the courthouse in Salisbury where they both had occasion to sit in the judgement seat. Land exchanges and witchcraft were frequent business of the day and they spent the following three days preparing to testify for Mary if Thomas Putnam Jr. should return with witnesses. 
Tuesday, the 9th of September finally arrived and a great ensemble was present for all the cases that had built up during the storm at the court in Salem.  Their case was actually heard late in the day by Judge Stoughton. 
“We’ll now begin the case of Putnam and Walcott vs Bradbury.”
Tom delivered the testimony of James Allen to the judge. The judge took one dismissive glance at it and put it aside.  Tom insisted that it be read for the jurors to hear. 
“Is this not a court of hearing and trial still? Judge Sewall had inquired after this form of testimony for Mrs. Bradbury.”
“Go ahead and read it then,” he yawned. 
Tom read the document entirely:
“Being desirous to give my testimony concerning the life and conversation of Mrs. Bradbury of Salisbury amongst us which is as followeth:
I having lived nine years at Salisbury, in the work of the ministry and now four years in the office of pastor, to my best notice and observation of Mrs. Bradbury, she hath lived according to the rules of the Gospel amongst us; was a constant attender upon the ministry of the word, and all the ordinances of the gospel full of works of charity and mercy to the sick and poor; neither have I seen or heard anything of her unbecoming the profession of the gospel.
James Allen

Mr. James Allen made oath to the truth of what is above written September the 7th, 1692 before me Robert Pike, Asst.
I do also affirm to the truth of what is above testified upon upward of fifty years experience and shall so testify if opportunity do present which I shall endeavor. 
Robert Pike.

Having lived many years in Salisbury and been much conversant there, according to my best notice and observation of Mrs. Bradbury, I must needs affirm to what is above written and add my oath to it if called thereto.
John Pike”

When he finished reading, he passed it up to the clerk for the record of the court.  
Thomas Putnam Jr. smiled and said, I also have testimony which I obtained I would ask for the court’s fairness in allowing me to read the statement of my daughter in her own words. He read:

The deposition of Ann putnam who testifieth and saith that: I being at Andover on the 26 day of July 1692, I saw there Miss Mary Bradbury, the wife of Captain Thomas Bradbury of Salisbury or 
her Appearance, most grievously afflicting and tormenting Timothy Swan of Andover almost ready to kill him also several times before and since that time I have seen Mrs. Bradbury or her Appearance most grievously afflicting Timothy Swann and I believe that Mrs. Bradbury is a most dreadful witch for since she has been in prison she or her Appearance has come to me and most grievously afflicted me, Ann Putnam owned before the grand inquest - this here evidence to be the true one the oath that she hath taken: this: 8 day of September 1692
Ann Putnam”

Mr. Putnam handed his document to the clerk and smiled at the judge. Judge Stoughton did not return it. 
“We will now hear from your witnesses Mr. Putnam.”
“I would like to call to the stand Mr. Samuel Endicott.”
After Mr. Endicott took oath and answered the initial identifying questions of his age, residence and occupation and verification of his identification of the accused being the same has for his complaint, Mr. Putnam inquired of his witness,  “Mr. Endicott, please tell us your account of the affliction Mrs. Bradbury tormented you with.”
“Eleven years ago, I was on voyage out to see with Captain Samuel Smith, who has since deceased.  Just before we sailed, Mrs. Bradbury, the prisoner now at the bar came to Boston with some firkins of butter. Captain Smith bought two firkins, one of them only half finished churning and after we had been at sea three weeks, our men were not able to eat it. It stank so much it was run throughout with maggots which made the men very much disturbed about it and would often say that they heard Mrs. Bradbury was a witch and that they verily believed she was so or else she would not have served the Captain such butter.”
Ann Putnam turned her nose up and audibly gave a long “ew” to the mention of maggots. She started her fits again. Her mother lifted her dragging body up and discretely smacked her on the behind. 
“Order!” he shouted at them, “Continue Mr. Endicott.”
“Four days after we set sail, we were met with such a violent storm that we lost our main mast and riggin’ and had to throw overboard fifteen horses. After about a fortnight, after we set our jury mast, that very night there came up a ship by our side and carried away two of the mizzen shrouds and one of the leaches of the mainsail.”
This time, the whole group of girls were dropping to the floor and fainting and some laughing with a loud hysterical cackle. Eyes darted in their direction and after some pause and threatening glares, they slowly ceased. 
“After we arrived in Barbados we went to Saltitudos and had laden our vessel the next morning, she sprang a leak in the hold which wasted several tons of salt insomuch that we were forced to unladen our vessel again wholly to stop our leak and there was then four feet of water in the hold after had taken in our lading again, we had a good passage home but when we came near the land the Captain sent me forward to look out for land in a bright moon shining night and as I was sitting on the windlass, I heard a rumbling noise under me. I looked on the side of the windlass and saw the legs of Mrs Bradbury.”
Tom jumped in, “Objection!” 
The judge nodded automatically after a nudge from the clerk. Tom continued, “How could you tell it was my good wife Mrs. Bradbury if you only saw the legs?”
This made Mr. Endicott growl angrily, “As I shooed and hollered at the legs, the did not move and could not be affrighted. I was shaking and when I looked over my shoulder, I saw the rest of the appearance of a woman from her middle upwards, having a white cap and a white neckcloth as Mrs. Bradbury would wear which frightened me very much and as I was turning of the windlass, I saw the aforesaid two legs again.”
Mr. Putnam grew concerned and jumped in with “Thank you Mr. Endicott.”
Judge Stoughton then nodded to the defense, you may speak or address the witness. 
Tom sat silent a moment trying to consider the options. He addressed the court fearing more time with the witnesses would just lead to more lies.
“It is true that my wife sold Captain Smith two firkins of butter. It may or may not be true that her butter was of inferior quality that day or if Captain Smith merely stored it in an improperly wet part of the ship. We do know the ship had leaks which would make the butter seem half-churned. The evidence for Mary causing storms, leaks, loss of horses and appearing on the ship is a falsehood motivated by Mr. Endicott’s frailties of mind and habit of blaming all misfortunes on those he has found fault with or wishes to discredit in business.  It is commonly known that storms can arise from the Caribbean. How do we know if that is evidence of witchcraft or evidence of Nature other than by the perceptions of Mr. Endicott which are fallible as we all are?”  
After this passioned speech continued, many were nodding in agreement with his apt ability for rhetoric. Major Pike continued to criticize the way Mr. Putnam questioned and posed further questions that would illuminate other more likely possibilities for Mr. Endicott’s loss and his bitter character. 
Mr. Putnam scowled but soon lit up as the judge gave him the floor back at which he then brought Mary Warren up to the stand, “I now present Mary Warren for questions.”
Mary answered the usual starting questions and was examined with questions.
“Mary, how long have you been afflicted by Mrs. Bradbury?”
“A long long time.”
“When did this happen?”
“It was that day we were here last time.”
“How did you know it was Mrs. Bradbury?”
“She told me her name was Miss Bradbury and that she came from Salisbury.”
“Is it the same woman sitting there?”
“Yes it is.”
“Objection!” interrupted Tom, “How does she look at her now and answer so peacefully?”
Mr. Putnam nodded at her and mouthed a few words which the judge nor Tom caught. “What did she do to you?”
“She did most grievously afflict me and torment me that day but if she looked upon me, she would strike me down or almost choke me. Also, it was not always her but sometimes her appearance that would afflict me.”
“Did she afflict anyone else?”
“Oh yes, her appearance most grievously afflicted and tormented Mary Walcott, Sarah Bibber, Elizabeth Hubbard and Ann Putnam.”
“And do you believe this is because Mrs. Bradbury is a witch?”
“Objection! Leading..”
“Overruled Mr. Bradbury. Continue.”
“And do you believe she could afflict you so much because Mrs. Bradbury is a witch who does the Devil’s work?”
“I believe in my heart that Miss Bradbury is a witch and that she has very often afflicted and tormented me and several others by her acts of witchcraft.”
    Mr. Putnam put Sarah Bibber and Elizabeth Hubbard on the stand after and their testimonies were almost a pure copy cat of Miss Warren’s in both tone and claims. Tom flatly refuted their testimonies as a lie prepared by the prosecution but was quickly reprimanded by judge Stoughton who took a lot of sympathy with the young girls.  Mr. Putnam then brought Richard Carr followed by Zerubbabel Endicott having lost a chance to answer.
“Mr. Carr, please give us an account of what happened.”
Richard Carr, a young man in his thirties with dirty brown hair spoke in a slight Scottish brogue Mary distastefully remembered, “Thirteen years ago after some differences that happened to be between my Honored father, Mr. George Carr and the prisoner…” He gave the account of George seeing the blue boar which gave Tom and Mary pause. They knew what had happened there and he completely omitted the motives for his visit by George Carr but of course he would, he was too young. The testimony was brief and simplified. Zerubbabel Endicott, son of the doctor by the same name, was much more clean cut in his appearance and dark haired like his grandfather. He had a sly tone to his voice. He repeated the same story that their father went up and saw Mary Bradbury appear as a blue boar with the same face as Mary. He further mentioned how as they went home, they spent the entire way back discussing it. Mary had no idea the boar had given them the impression of her appearance and was afraid of how accurate it sounded but they also highlighted “boar” in such an insulting manner and almost jokingly. Mary wasn’t sure exactly what happened there except that she knew of the boar and that she was spared and that she had a box whose curiosity was beyond her reckoning. She didn’t remember Zerubbabel being there at all. 
Tom played off the whole thing as preposterous but that wild hogs are a frequent occurrence on their farms and that a hot day could cause anyone to see a hog or a boar more fantastic than it really was and that boars are naturally known to charge and eat out of the waste piles left out for the hogs. 
Mr. Putnam was allowed next to call up James Carr who recounted the course treatment he suffered at the hands of Mrs. Rebecca Williams Bradbury who was now deceased. He didn’t even mention that she had since deceased so little did he actually seem to care for her. This matter was set right by Tom who explained that this was not evidence of being “behagged” as he was quoting Dr. Crosby of saying of Mary. 
Mr. Putnam took pains to question Mary Walcott, niece-in-law to that demon specialist Mary Sibley and co-conspirator with Ann Jr. After swearing her in and asking her name and such, he asked her, “Miss Walcott, what happened on the day of July 26th this year?”
“I was in Andover and saw Mary Bradbury, the wife of Captain Thomas Bradbury of Salisbury or her appearance most grievously afflicting and tormenting Timothy Swann of Andover almost ready to kill him. Also, before and since that time, I have seen her do the same.”
“Do you believe, Mrs. Bradbury, who sits there, is truly a witch?”
“I do believe in my heart that Miss Bradbury is a most dreadful witch since she has been in prison, her appearance has come to me and tormented me also.”
“That is enough Miss Walcott.”
“We shall have an hour’s recess,” announced judge Stoughton.
Everyone walked outside the courthouse to get some warm sun. William Carr had been in the standing room since the court was packed. Tom introduced William to Major Pike who shook his hand. 
“Major Pike, I have Mr. William Carr here who has been disaffected with James and Richard Carr since they have excluded him and bullied him so into lying for them which he refuses to do. He is a good man and has said he would be willing to testify for us.”
“That’s most blessed news Captain. Let’s add his testimony to the ordering for the judge. I’ll go submit him now.”
After recess, the judge entered as everyone was still standing. The sheriff then seated everyone. 
“We’ll now hear the testimony of William Carr. You may proceed Mr. Bradbury.”
Gasps were heard all around the room and taunting was shouted incoherently against the brother. 
Mr. Bradbury began his standard set of questions and discovered him to be about 41 years old, and very youthful looking for his age. He had a straw colored hair with a reddened shadow of beard and blue eyes that looked very similar to George Carr’s but much kinder and innocent. 
“Please tell us the story of how John Carr died?”
William’s Scottish brogue matched that of the family but also carried the speech of the unlearned in his voice. Apparently, the had also neglected him when it came to good education--much to Tom’s concern. He spoke up after a pause, “My brother, was younger and of as good a capacity as most men his age. It was then that he fell in love with Jane True, now with Captain John March. My father, being persuaded by some of the family, which I shall not name, not to let him marry so young, would not give him a portion whereupon the match broke of which my brother laid so much to heart that he grew melancholy and by degrees, much crazed not being the man that he was before to his dying day.”
“Objection, he is lying!”
“Overruled! Continue Mr. Carr.”
“I do further testify, that….”, he paused long seized by a moment of fear, “I do further testify, that my said brother was sick about a fortnight or three weeks and then died. I was present with him when he died and do affirm that he died peaceably and quietly never manifesting the least trouble in the world about anybody nor did not say anything Mrs Bradbury nor anybody else doing him hurt and yet I was with him till the breath of life was out of his body.”
A soft roar of murmurs were echoing through the courtroom. Judge Stoughton pounded his gavel several times in threat. Mr. Putnam was busy coaching Ann and Miss Walcott for their next performance.
“Mr. Putnam, you may proceed with your witnesses.”
“I would like to have Samuel Endicott take my place at this time so as to question my daughter.”
“Come forward.”
“I would like to bring back Ann Putnam and Mary Walcott back to the stand for a recording of testimony and answers to questions I would like to ask them.”
Tom knew Miss Walcott by now would surely back what Ann said in detail, the only difference being how much personal livestock had supposedly suffered. Ann followed suit with the account of Mary’s examination day and how the accused Mary had struck all her friends “by her acts of witchcraft” but then added in refutation of William Carr’s testimony by saying, “Also, my uncle John Carr appeared to me in a winding sheet whom I very well knew in his lifetime.”
“What did he tell you?”
“He told me that Miss Bradbury had murdered him and that his blood did cry for vengeance against her.”
“Did Mrs. Bradbury say anything when she appeared to you?” he grinned widely.
“Her appearance told me that it was she that made my father’s sheep to run away so that they were all lost and that she had killed my father’s heifer and also killed that horse that he took such delight in.”
Mary Bradbury took the bait and yelled, “You liar Miss Putnam.  How is it that you hate the Lord so much as to bear false witness against your neighbor? I have never come near your home, nor did I even know what lays down in your barn.”  
“Mrs Bradbury!” shouted judge Stoughton.
“That is all your honor, I object to this personal attack that which if I refuse not would make you all to think I did these detestable things to this girl I hardly know.”
Stoughton seemed impressed and irate at the same time if that was possible. His face was a frozen grimace of disgust at everything but his eyebrow raised slightly and ambiguously upon his clay like brow. 
Mary Walcott’s testimony was starting to bore the judge to tears at this point. Thankfully for him, there were no more witnesses or depositions to order up to the stand. Mary’s trial had been recorded and they took a final recess but with the doors shut and guarded as the judge went to the chambers by himself. 
 After the recess, Judge Stoughton walked stiffly and gently back to his chair and read a paper handed to him from a clerk who apparently took his dictation in the chamber, copied from another paper. He read it aloud: “Mary Bradbury, wife of Captain Thomas Bradbury, having heard the testimonies presented both for and against you, and after a due consideration of evidence, this court has determined the verdict on the accusations made against you, in that Mary Bradbury is … “, he paused uncomfortably but raised his eyes up for a moment staring across the heads of the court with his expressionless face and voice, “guilty of all the accusations made in that she was found to be committing ….Sundry Acts of Witchcraft and Sorceries as forbidden by law and therefore subject to any penalties prescribed and justly passed in sentence for your crime.”
He spoke aside to the clerk to indicate all the extra wording he would need to put on a verdict with the same empty tone.  His seriousness seemed to be the product of many self-corrections on any display of humanity in the course of his pious personal and religious life.  Mary wondered at this feeling she had better odds at getting boars to fly with her on their back than getting this man to show any expression. Even so, she held out hope she would be spared, even though she knew it was also unprecedented.
Judge Stoughton, pounded the gavel.  He paused and stared at the people in the room with the same expression he used to go out and check on livestock. He turned a page leaf and scanned the paper a moment before reading again, “On this day, the 9th of September, 1692, Having heard many witnesses and found the defendant guilty and convicted of Sundry Acts of Witchcraft and Sorceries, maliciously and feloniously used against the plaintiffs aforesaid and in defiance of the Crown, it is the Judgement of this court that Mary Bradbury is hereby sentenced to die by hanging at the gallows which is to be carried out on the 22nd day of September of this year, 1692 of our Lord.”
Mary’s face sunk, eyes cast deeply into the ground she thought herself soon to lie in.  Tears welled but did not flow, her eyes already dried from the thirst she endured in her cell.   The court sat in silent awe of the cruelty in his look.  Sniffles could be heard from her side of the aisle. Her mind scattered and flurried with worrisome thoughts. 
Judge Stoughton pounded his gavel again, “Court Dismissed.”
Marshal Herrick took Mary by the chains and pulled her along.  Thomas glowered in a deep stare ahead, not looking directly but knowing that he was leading her around like he would an old pet.  That fool had a look of smug satisfaction at having overtaken someone older and wiser than himself.  Let go of my wife! He thought to himself. He froze unable to move. He worried he might make it worse for her. He tried a few times in vain to do something with the emotional power of his thoughts and prayers like he had seen Mary do.  He dared not act rashly and be overtaken.  His thoughts flew into plans and strategies again. Every idea that went through his mind was weighed for its possible effectiveness at the possibility of liberating his Good and God fearing wife. He blamed himself for the spiritual handcuffs he had given her even as she wore the physical ones granted by false witnesses and the work of pure evil. She looked back at him, longing and forlorn, pleading with her eyes to come for her.  He remembered how many times he promised to be there for her.  What can I do?  He clenched in physical agony at the emotional and spiritual agony being handed down to his body. He doubled over as his chest and belly tightened and he fell on his hands and knees in what might have looked like prayer as spectators watched, but he was not exactly praying. He was flooded with fear, pain and early mourning. Robert Pike put his hand over his shoulder, stooping down to pat him and let him know he was there. Children now ran up to him. Soon, the sheriff would come past them and order them out. 
***
