Iron rusted the thick bars into pitted shards of red and black.
The wood floors were damp. Wild slimy mushrooms grew in the darkest corner of the cell. A sudden clamour and the distant voice of a guard rattled in monotone: “State your business.”  Ipswich’s cells echoed randomly followed by squeaking rats.
“I’m here to visit Mary Bradbury.”
“Who are you?”
“Captain Thomas Bradbury, her husband.”
The guard called to another guard. 
“Wait here”
What seemed about an hour passed.
“This way”
All the prisoners had been taken from the common area and put back in cells.  The guard led him to her.  Captain Bradbury motioned that he wished some privacy and launched into dull conversations about chilblains on cows. Sure enough, it worked. They were alone.
“Thomas, don’t break me out, they have orders to shoot anyone down seen escaping.  They have muskets, I’m not fast on my feet anymore.”
“We have to get you out, the punishments have gotten worse. They just pressed Corey Giles for not entering a plea.  He was squirming for two whole days under giant stone weights.  He was not delivered.”
Mary’s jaw slowly dropped in utter shock, turning pale on top of the pale she already had.  
“Jacob is worried for you.”
“He’s looking even older than I am.” jested Mary. 
Thomas caught off guard gave a hearty chuckle but continued  “It may very well be so but he has always looked up to you and can’t bear the thought of you here and he’s been around the courts long enough to know that a little favor in the right hands can bring down any wall.”
“Don’t risk Jacob, he’s the only brother I have left and has a large estate to lose. Those poor children of his, what would they do?  What if the courts will pay double. We have to do something or they will kill the rest of the town off and there will be no one but those Sisters of Deceit left!  I hope Samuel Willard will come through.  I need you to send a message to Maria Cotton, an anonymous one, she’ll know what she has to do.  She is one of the most important good witches of this land and she has to get through to her thick husband Increase to stop this madness and to bend Cottons arm to bring this to a close.  I will help you compose it.  She could be next.”
“What about Reverend John Hale?”
“I have a plan there. Mary Herrick is easily fooled and not to keen on Sarah Hale.  I think John will soon change his tune if Sarah Hale is accused.  People who live in straw huts shouldn’t throw rocks!”
The 21st day of September came and there were no visitors that day.  Mary looked forlorn, hopeful.  She knew her brother far too well.  If he did come, she’d need his help.  She got down and put her palms on the ground.  The water level rose outside on the ground approaching the jail.  A mist covered the ground.  
She saw two shadows in the distance approaching with a third and a fourth. They suddenly came into view.  It was Jacob, Thomas and two strong men who looked familiar followed behind.  There was the hiss of acid on the hinges.  Bubbles and more bubbles.  Mary closed her eyes in a prayer.  They pulled at the door, supporting it and it slid off the hinge after which they set it down with a thud.  As they left, a question burned in Mary’s mind.  “How did they get past the two guards?”  She would soon know.
One of the guards was asleep, the other nowhere to be found.  Jacob held up a bottle of wine.
They walked down a path and there they helped Mary into the cart.  Thomas spoke: “First stop, Amesbury.”
The sound of horses could be heard clopping the ground gently in a slow stealthy walking gait. The long dark brown faces of three military grade geldings parted the mist soon to be followed by the brim shadowed face of Samuel Endicott, Marshal George Herrick and another man with a black kerchief on his face holding a new musket.  
Wasting no time, Jacob leaped into the cart, partially loaded with food supplies where Mary had nested herself and stumbled around until he was side by side with his sister.  A large canvas was still rolled up and tied with rope.
“Hold on tight!”
With that Mary and Jacob held onto the front wall of the cart as Captain Thomas leapt over the saddle and shouted his horse into a deliberate canter keeping the cart steady behind him on the trail.  Mary closed her eyes and then opened one.  The mist ahead of Captain Thomas cleared for him and she could see they were now taking a trail that went by rocky ledges and outcroppings over the water.  
*Boom-Pow-w-ww!” echoed the musket shot.  
The sound of a full gallop could be heard behind him.  Mary concentrated to obscure their trail but her concentration was weak.  Clouds of fog rolled back and forth behind them but the gallops got closer.  They could hear their direction.  Soon again, Mary and Jacob could make out the shadows of the three riders and indiscernible yelling between the men.  Thomas dared not look behind him but put all his faith in the path forward. It seemed hours had passed in those few minutes.  Every second of safety cherished and given due gratitude to every supernal resident of Heaven and Earth.  
“Powww-w-w” another shot fired, this time the spray of dust just under hoof and wheel. Jacob’s heart was beating frantically and his whispers thanking the Lord could be heard again.  Boldened by the narrow miss, Jacob acted quick handing Mary some rope used to tie down several firkins and crates full of pots. He then took the canvas and threw it down.  One of the horses had nose-dived into the ground issuing a little geyser of mud.  Jacob, grateful he got one was still not secure in his situation.  There were two horses and riders left and they were closing in quickly.  They were now in face view.  Marshal Herrick was out of the group, just the musketman and Samuel left.  Mary saw time slow further, watching in fear as if watching herself in a dream as the man with the musket took aim directly at her.  For seconds, she felt unsure what to do.  She handed Jacob a pot.  He threw down one of the pots towards their feet until it shattered, but it didn’t go far enough.  The musket man’s horse leapt over it forcing him to grab the reins and bridle and lose his aim. The jolt almost disarmed him but the musket held on by a cord over his arm.   Mary slipped down behind crates taking cover and Jacob motioned her to give him another pot.  She handed him another pot, this time Jacob aimed higher.  He missed again, off to his side.  Samuel rode behind him ordering and yelling at him seeming as if to ask him to take aim again.  Jacob grabbed another pot from the crate seeing where Mary had gotten it from.  Just as Samuel was yelling at him, Jacob threw another pot, this one hitting the horse in the head and just nicking the musket which fired again but into the air.  The shock made the horse leap and throw the musket man over the side.  It ran alongside the other horse, not rejoining its rider.  The musket man could be heard screaming in some pain.  Jacob looked very relieved as the musket was taken out.  As fast as the cart went, it could not match a carted horse.  Samuel got within eye view of Jacob and Mary. He yelled at them now. 
“I will see to it you burn in hell with me you witch!  I’ll kill all of you myself!”
Samuel was unarmed but much younger than Jacob, herself or her husband.  He was much more able bodied and capable of murder.  Mary slid completely onto her back and behind a firkin.  She tried to kick it but to no avail. It was heavy and did not completely vault the back rail of the cart.  
“You can’t hide from me you infernal Devils!  I will drag you behind my horse Mary”
As he spoke again, she kicked the firkin again, this time, it went over the cart, bursting into staves hoops and butter.  
“Once again you lie Mr. Endicott!” she yelled back, just as his horse tried to unsuccessfully parry the mess.  It tried to jump but slid on its back legs, tripping and slipping in the butter and finally toppling sideways it’s contorted body now buckling and tossing Samuel over the rocky face of the water’s edge.  The rocks he hit below did not spare him.  Nor did the buzzards and ravens.
Mary collapsed into her little brother’s arms. Her face drawn out from the exhaustion.  Her small black lashes from her left eye held one teardrop which finally streamed down her wrinkled cheek which she seemed mostly oblivious to.  Her other eye wet Jacobs jacket.  She made no sobs but heaved in sighs, and shook from the adrenaline. He too was shaking, mouth dry and too hoarse to speak, he held her and rocked her, comforting his older sister.  Both collapsed from the ordeal. 
Thomas trotted the cart along.  He had told everyone they were going to Amesbury.  The plan was that they would inform of the escape but give no other details..  
Marshal Herrick would be bedridden under the care of doctors.  Word spread that Samuel Endicott was missing and had gone out the same night Mary had escaped after a lot of speculation had brewed.  Had Mary stayed, she would have been hung alongside Martha Corey, Margaret Scott, Mary Easty, Alice Parker, Ann Pudeator, Willmott Redd, Samuel Wardwell and Mary Parker.  The people of Amesbury were never allowed to know where Mary was for a time.  Her family in Salisbury missed her and held fast to her home and the story that protected her.  After a few years, she would be rumored to have died there.  
But that rumor was not the case, Thomas gathered up new supplies and took his wife to York Maine.  There he met with the Wheelwright in-laws.  Her eldest son’s family would continue there. Mary hid out well into January fearing capture and trial for Samuel Endicott’s murder.  A high ranking person like Endicott was no trivial death to deal with.  
***
Back in Salem, Increase Mather denounces the use of spectral evidence early the next month of October.  Reverend John Hale switches sides the following month after Mary Herrick accuses John’s second wife, Sarah Noyes Hale of witchcraft.  By spring the next year, the trials died down.  William Phips shut down the court and one of the magistrates, Samuel Sewall, who had taken part in the questioning recanted his stance and publicly repented of his role in the Salem Witch Trials of 1692.  
***
On a beautiful May Friday morning, Mary looked up at the sky, the birds and early leaf flower blooms and as she had foreseen, this day would be the day that the last bits of darkness would have faded away enough for her to return home in Salisbury.  Her husband Thomas had returned claiming to have searched for her in vain and declared her missing.  Thomas looked aged from the experience. They were on high vigilance the entire time but after a while, people became preoccupied elsewhere seeing as there was no possible way to resolve it further.  Her brother Jacob would go bring her back.  Captain Thomas’s steps were becoming unsure and his ankles did not heal swiftly enough.  
“Welcome home my beloved.”, came Thomas with the warmest look beaming from his tired face.
“Good to be home Tom” and with that, they embraced, cried and praised all heaven. 
Wymond, her grandson came up to her, “Grandmother, we missed you!  You promised me you would read me a story and teach me letters!”
“Oh, I definitely will.”
In 1695, Thomas died and left Mary with enough in his will for her to continue as well as estates for those sons and daughters who gave him heirs by way of grandchildren.  Mary still cared for her spinster daughter Elizabeth, her little dandy Thomas, sending him crypt letters and packages stuffed with warm blankets and little keepsakes.  She continued to care for and teach all her grandchildren in the ways of writing advising them to “write a little bit every day”. She also made them promise to keep dutiful records as both she and her husband did and to carry forward and add unto the lessons they had learned: “A journal is a bible too and no less important.  Keep always a book to remember your ancestors and discover their hardships so you do not see them repeated.  Fight for the meek and give justice where due.  Fight against conspiracy and scapegoating so that the wisdom of the meek may survive.  Stay clear of those who demonstrate folly but be a friendly acquaintance to all.  You never know when you need to make a quick ally or deter a sudden foe.”
Mary writes a couple of stories that she reads to her children, hoping they’ll always do good and if they ever obtain skill or greatness, to always remain modest and deferent to avoid the traps of fame, warning them if they become too prideful, they will cease to have power and tumble like an old tower that few suspect has aged quite so much.  As she was teaching Wymond letters, Wymond noticed Mary had a tear in her eye which progressed into some sighing and then sobs and streams of tears..
“Why are you crying?”
“Because so many others died.”, she replied, catching her breath between sobs. “I escaped the gallows, the saddest witch is not the witch who dies but the witch who lives to see the other witches die.”
“What is a witch exactly?”
“For some, it means they have obtained power and perform acts of sorcery and harm by signing the Devil’s book.  For others, it just means a hag, an older woman like me, who is eccentric, for those who have conspired to bear false witness, these two are the same and so many will die because of them. They are probably worse than those who sign a book.”
“What does it mean to you?”
“Someone who has been acquainted with grief and who by the Lord’s grace, learns wisdom.”
Five days before Christmas in the year 1700, Mary lay in bed ill, barely able to swallow.  Eighty-five is good she regularly thought to herself since her big 85th birthday in September.  She died five days before Christmas, according to the wish that she wouldn’t have to explain the gifts she had given to each of her grandchildren, leaving them each a small note and a curious object that would lead them on their own adventures. 
