After Mary’s death, her son, Thomas Bradbury Jr. would survive to see a particular day in 1711 when the state of Massachusetts paid Mary’s heirs £20 out of the £578.12s granted to claimants of the condemned.
Estates also had their attainders reversed allowing the condemned to pass on their inheritances under the English laws of the time.  Other laws would follow in setting aright the various wrongs made by officials of the time up to and beyond the founding of the United States of America.
Numerous bits of folklore and legendary fantastic stories surfaced for a few generations and then all but disappeared.  One of the most fanciful stories was one given by Dr. Howard Bradbury saying that Mary got a nephew in Boston to put on a phosphorescent costume with the accoutrements befitting that of the Great Devil in person and instructed him to appear before Constable Baker and scare him into releasing her.  
Today, or at the time of this writing, Mary Bradbury’s legacy lives on through various descendents by both daughter and son among which I myself, am one.  A great many historical references in this story are true.  Mary did indeed outlive practically everyone else in her family except a handful of her children.  Her grandson Wymond Jr from her oldest son Wymond settled in Kittery of York Maine, where today a bustling trading post and fantastic lobster diners dot the seaside.  True to the prophecy, her great grandson would become a judge and father the next Queens and Kings of the Bradbury and Perkins legacy and develop the brotherhood of the new American churches and see the day the colonies would become a new country. He died December 3, 1778 in York Maine and laid to rest with his father.  He had many daughters of which his youngest, Anne, it is known, by way of these writings, continued to carry on the Good Wife's arts along with a record of their history.  
It is well documented that Ray Bradbury, the esteem and late author is a descendant of Mary Bradbury. From his tales such as Dandelion Wine (considered his most personal work), we can see some of the influences of witchcraft in his characters such as Clara Goodwater and the Tarot Witch of the penny arcade who is later portrayed as a princess trapped in wax.   
Mary Bradbury has many other notable descendents.  Namely, Bradbury Robinson (1752-1801) who fought at the Battle of Concord and testified that the British fired first. Bradbury Robinson the football player who threw the first legal forward pass.  Ralph Waldo Emerson, the transcendentalist and fourth great-grandson of Mary Bradbury through her daughter Judith.  Mary’s younger brother Jacob Perkins would produce many famous persons in his posterity including Franklin Delano Roosevelt and Humphrey Bogart.  The itch of the pen seems to be a hereditary gift from Mary. It was Ray Bradbury who once said, "You must write every single day of your life... You must lurk in libraries and climb the stacks like ladders to sniff books like perfumes and wear books like hats upon your crazy heads... may you be in love every day for the next 20,000 days. And out of that love, remake a world." 
