 said Judith the head witch in a raspy falsetto, 
His soul hath swithly gone and thou needest our succor,
Hepsibah, sister, his soul sleepeth before the fire,
And bind these to a spell for him!
Meow
Mine familiar, tarry but a little longer with me!
Where is that boy?
once you got to be familiar with her.
once you start to do business with her.
Mother, I think he’s back there somewhere,
Willy, have you seen my brother Henry?
Lizzie
I thought we were looking for him.
Yes, and I was just about to bring him back!
Henry, what did I tell you before we got here?
Oww!
Johnny, we found Henry!
olde remedys
Please take me duck hunting!
Sorry Henry, you scared them all last time, I can’t take you if you want to eat game tonight.
Do that and ye won’t fill your pail!
Come butter come, come butter come, Peter stands at the gate, waiting for his buttered cake
So would you like to go visit grandpa?
Oh we must go!
Put it down in the center and come over here!
Oh bless you Mary!
Judith, it’s been too long, your children are half grown!
Oh father, I was just here last week bringing you bread and butter.
And my good boy John, come in and pray tell me what you’ve grown this year,
I brought you some sweet butter lacking the salt, just the way you like it Father.
You can go out and play but don’t wander off too far!
Mary, wait up for mother.
Yes mother?
Would you like to stay here and help grandpa?
That lavender I can use for a salve that can heal scrapes,
We shall be back again in a few mornings.
Now we’ll roll it around into a ball and knead it,
Won’t I get the flowers greasy?
Yes Grandfather.
Now we need to do this again a few times and we’ll soon have a wonderful and fragrant salve.
There, now you try it.
This is a water to make plants grow,  I just toss all my scraps into this.
They’re pesky but they only add to the mix.
When I can’t eat all the honey, I put some of it in my still here.
Why aren’t my strawberries growing?
What’s bog?
Oh, that’s where the stems can’t breathe and rot grows on them and they get slimes like a pond.
Ohh, ok.
My you are helpful.
Come back soon, I have some old receipts that works really good for the colic in babes and a mead I think you’d really like.
Lizzie, I had such a wonderful time, I learned so much, I have to tell you about the flower butter I made!
Want to know what I did all week?
It’s not your fault, she’s been like this all week.
Not yet
What did he teach you?
We didn’t work that much.
Come on Mary, please tell me.
Ok, well…
Well?
Thank you Henry.
 Judith almost said 
Why don’t you sing a good little psalm to enchant the thread as I instructed you?
Mary, it is time I take you to our kin’s land.
Lizzie’s been out earlier today laying flowers on all the graves, and praying to the good Lord if he would send them to find papa.
This is where mama is buried.
Follow me.
Yes mother.
So if I am a princess, who will be my subjects?
Who can I tell?
How can I do that?
Take the children out to one of the ordinaries on the main road and let them eat whatever they want.
Mary, I’m sorry I was cross with you,
I am sorry…
Lizzie, can we speak of such things here?
Dinner is served!
Henry, where do you hide all that stew?
I’ll be hanging in chains if I don’t find it immediately!
I swore it was right here!
Some pick pocket’s unlucky day just arrived.
I caught him the little cutpurse!
That’s ours!
Ye don’t want to let go do ye?
oomph
Why did you do that?
Come back Henry!
Come back!
Come back!
What did you do!?
Tha’ thief took our coins and refused to give ‘ar back so I took it fro’ him.
What did you to the boy?!
That’s his mother.
Tha’ knave was the thief who took our bill collecting,
He is no thief.
Do you mean that pouch?
Yes,
Not this one?
So tha’ were two bags?
You killed my son over this tiny pouch of coins?!
John?
Hello?
Thank you, We could sure use this right now.
If we are truly cursed, would this be prudent for us to go?
They also say the Viscount will be there and wants to see you.
Then we will go..
I beg you, I cannot take it my Lord.
Knowledge requires much strength, I know.
I’ll have some victuals sent over to your home later.
May I have your lovely children’s names my dear?
John, Lizzie, Mary, Thomas and Jacob
What a beautiful girl you are Mary, do you like to read?
 she looked at Judith to see if she might have over-stretched her statement, she did and followed up with, 
Mannered, precocious, honest...
Any time you need some helpful reading, take a look at the little book with the cross on it.
What can I do?
It would be time to go!
Sower of Sedition
spinster
Mother, when are we leaving?
Mom, you wouldn’t believe that there are so many wild stags there, you could eat stew and pies all day just by walking out your door and taking one down in the morning!
I want a pipe like the doctors have
Waylon!
Aye Captain!
Show these gentle folks to their cabins.
Aye aye Captain
Reverend, this cabin will be yours.
We’re all tight mate.
Superb Jake, tell Captain
Good Day Fair Ladies and Gentle Lords
Fend off.
Bend the jib
Furl the main
Weigh anchor, 
, 
Little Miss
Sir
Mary!?
We have to wash up for dinner.
Come quick, they’re showing us where to hang our laundry and where to find the soap.
She left in mom’s hand and then took a last look at Waylon who was now preoccupied.
Mary, what is it?
I know it’s a huge ship and a lot to take in Mary.
No.
The older adults
Good evening Miss Perkins
Good evening…
Waylon
Good evening Waylon
Did you enjoy my song?
, she paused in teasing., 
My song I am afraid is not charming at all…
oh?
compared to you.
You look cold.
I am surprised.
Oh?
That you would surpass my best dream of what beauty is
No, I saw you first, I watched you from the stern and borrowed the telescope to see who this beautiful lady was..
Oh, you can’t be telling me this!
But it was only a couple times every day and very lightly.
I am still sorry he did that to you.
Month?!
Now I’m playing the wags with you, I meant days.
He really is an upright man and the best captain I’ve ever known.
Where did you come from?
I don’t know, I was told when I was old enough to remember that they saw my parents drop me off there when I was old enough to run.
Oh that’s even worse Waylon
But you learned your lesson after you met Captain Pierce right?
I’m sorry we have to part here.
I love you too.
I heard the Captain tell your parents to work on you to leave me.
They haven’t done so yet.
Yes Waylon.
He tied our hands Mary, he’s in charge, he doesn’t want his men distracted.
taken
well-deserved nap
prevent the disaster
Go check out that noise Maarten!
Move!
All passengers below deck, All hands on deck!
Man Overboard Man Overboard!!
Waylon!
Help!
Man Overboard!
cry
his son
my son
lost my Way
Captain!
Governor Winthrop, I was was just looking for you!
I’m giving you two companies of men to help unload the Lyon.
It seems our Deliverance was on the Lord’s own good time.
Greetings in the name of our Lord, Reverend Father!
Peace be unto you.
And unto you, your Lordship
I accept your kind invitation, Governor.
We are much obliged.
Hallo miss, oh, Margaret, is that you?
We met after you landed at the feast, remember?
Mary Perkins right?
As ever.
Spring brings out some of the most wonderful specimens, do you happy to know where I can find shepherd's purse?
Shepherd’s purse, we’re standing in it!
No, I haven’t.
Cornwall?
Why do they hate him so much?
I don’t think it helps us to get involved either but if we have something...they’ll want us to share it just as they shared everything with us.
So when can we find him to meet him?
Meet me back here tomorrow?
Mary, I think I know something about you.
Well you probably should know then that I am a princess.
A princess!?
Mom, tell Margaret I’m a princess!
I don’t know what you’re talking about
Mother, she is very sympathetic to gifts of spirit.
I think Margaret has already noticed.
She’s already very busy working to be a midwife.
Mary, do you know Reverend Williams?
Yes Margaret, I do.
What do you think of him?
Margaret, teach me how you would deliver a baby?
Ok, so is that all?
Why is that?
Finish your chores!
Jam Mitius Ardet
Do not practice it now...I don’t want anything to burn here.
Margaret, let’s do this together, it will be more effective this way.
Oh, I’m sorry Margaret.
Non-exting
That was excellent but can you practice on something a bit smaller like a candle next time?
Oh, and one more thing, you will of all certainty replace this haystack which was going to rot anyway.
I can understand Mother being so distraught but something’s bothering me about that expression of fear...it wasn’t the fire, that was under control...it was amazing what just happened there but she looked like that part was nothing at all!
So what if people talk Margaret?
Not long ago, people had to practice a lot of arts to survive but also risked death if they did not practice and they might face death if they did.
Get to the point!
Perkins Island
Master John!
Who Robin?
Why Robin?
Governor, I must speak with you now!
What is it John Perkins?
If you don’t leave now, we will shoot you.
Furthermore, I hereby appoint him and give him charge over the first public house in Ipswich for his keen understanding and skill at trade and careful book-keeping.
I, John Perkins Quartermaster and ordinary keeper.
What’s troubling you mother?
Would you like a sister or a brother Jacob?
Step up
Then would it be a girl?
Would you hand me a good thread of flax daughter?
From the foot she chose and the movement of the ring and the honey lacking in her dish, I would say she will be a, a, 
A Girl!
I will help you mother.
I, as well.
It’s a healthy baby girl!
Awwww
Ohhhh
You are a Godsend Margaret.
I love you Mary.
Always Margaret.
Do not forget to write me or else!
Mary,
Going swiftly Mother!
You were right you know.
Oh?
Can we be of service to you?
Who are you and what is your purpose here?
My name is Elizabeth Perkins and this is Mary also of Perkins.
Why yes that, he is.
I am Joanne and this is my brother James.
Am not!
Hey George, come help me out here!
We really can’t just sit here staring;
let’s try and dance to that tune he’s whistling, that should amuse them!
Whew!
My stars Mary, it looks like the men really took to you!
Maybe it’s because I had to skip higher than the rest to keep up with you!
Elizabeth…
No, let’s not talk about this, we should be getting home by now, the sun is almost settling on the hills.
Owwwwwwww!
John knows a lot of them.
What do you suggest then?
What about we meet in the green for the next feast and we bring a portion of food for everyone using your most delicate arts in bakings.
 replied Judith, 
Perchance then we will find someone who can help us out here so we can attend to the needs of our spirits in worship and care for others.
 nodding to John Sr., 
How do you do Sir, I don’t believe we’ve had the good grace of meeting yet.
May I introduce you to my family.
So George, I hear you are the local shipwright in town, was I right in hearing that?
That sounds good George, maybe we can work out a deal on some trades.
I’d be happy to, I need more able bodied men.
I’m afraid I can’t help you there, we’re looking for help ourselves.
I don’t have a memory of it.
Aye Sir, it would please me to help us both but as you so wish.
Lizzie, I can’t.
Thank you Mary.
Lo..
Have I arrived too early ...?
George
George
No, not early Mary.
Let me get you the chest of cloth I have and start packing you up.
It’s all yours for one shilling.
Tell me what the world has been like for you.
That is so remarkable.
How is this remarkable?
I reckon around seventeen.
I would be happy to see you again.
When?
You are in love...don’t try to hide it Mary Perkins, or should I say the future Mary Perkins Carr.
You can’t be serious.
He wants the whole world to know you’re his now.
That was very quick of him.
Who was that?
I don’t know.
Get out of here!
I know you were just being chivalrous George.
Tell me you feel the same as I do.
Well, I really don’t know for sure……
You love me don’t you!?
Time to take you back.
I love you too.
Come see me at the Tavern tomorrow?
It’s too early to tell Mary.
Want to tell us any more?
Don’t press her!
You’ll never guess.
What is it?
We’re getting a house maid tomorrow.
Hi Joanne, and you’re looking bright and lovely today.
You both have such a grace about yourselves.
 added Mehitable, 
Not merely the strong big and simple type then.
He’s generous, witty, fun loving. ..oh and he sent me home with fabrics and a crate of flour…. that should keep me busy all winter.
You don’t think he’ll propose soon do you?
If he asks are you going to say yes?
I haven’t given it much thought yet, I mean I just met him…
He hasn’t told me that.
Mary, don’t let these old spinsters fill your head with nonsense.
I was here on time but saw my friends and did not see you, so I joined them.
I’m sorry, don’t be angered by me
Mary, I want you to promise me something.
Yes my dear?

I swear it on the Testaments.
Old and New
Old ..and New
Good, I will tell you something great and marvelous.
Kiss me.
I hope that wasn’t too much.
No, it was nice George.
I’ll return this to you on the morrow.
You could always ask my mother and father who are also here.
No need, I’ve got this worked out,
I have something for you.
Oh George, that’s beautiful!
George?
Yes?
Merry Mount Thomas Morton?
Well, my mother did teach me...well, I once started a fire from a distance.
Hello?
George Carr wishes to traffic with you regarding an item he believes belongs to your daughter Mary..
Please bring him here so we may welcome him.
Sergeant Perkins Good Sir.
Welcome George
I understand you have something that is my daughter’s?
In truth I do Good Sir
May I give this to Mary myself if it please you and she can presently come here?
Of course
Mary!
Oh, it’s lovely George
You’ll get this if we wed.
I have something for you.
I said stop or I will show you something better to cry about.
If you’re going to act like this, go back home and don’t follow me.
Here you go
Come on Mary, here take it.
What’s the problem there?
You’re ok aren’t you Mary?
I’m ok
Now wave to him.
Are you going to the log sawing tomorrow?
Where is your wash at?
Good, you don’t need to dress the old queen around me as it is.
Look who is coming over!
Oh, she’s got my sails fluttering.
Is this how you show your support for me?
You show how much you love me by showing your petticoat to all the boys, playing the whore?
George, I didn’t have…
After all the dresses I gave you, you couldn’t find one modest dress?
Couldn’t you!?
George...I, I….
No George…
I said do you hear me?!
Yes
I won’t let your father give your hand to that man.
We don’t want what he has to give.
Didn’t he give you wonderful things?
Reverence or we shall have to take you out with your foul air.
Young lady, does he do this at home?
Old hag, her mind is infirm, she can’t hear you, nor will she talk to ...
I am not yours yet.
You are going to learn obedience Mary, if not from your father then from me!
Mary
I’ve been meaning to speak with you.
Yes?
If you are going to talk about George, do not say another word.
Ok, Elizabeth, what are you talking about?
I will start with some things you probably already know and then go on from there because this needs to be said from the start and I cannot say what you already know so I would ask your patience so I can get through it all because there is so much.
Then do tell it Elizabeth.
Shall I continue?
That’s not so bad Elizabeth, that happens.
Lift up your head Mary, he’s not going to give us a very fat hog if you look on so dreadfully.
There, that’s better Mary, keep laughing, it’s better medicine than that vinegar you’ve been taking.
Judy, what am I going to do with both my girls out of the house?
 replied Judith, 
I shall name him Zerubbabel.
...
I’ll do my best mother.
Please take it out!
Come back to check on him in three days and then we can say more if he stay or go.
There goes the youngest physick of Ipswich
Is that Mary Perkins the sister of John Perkins the Quartermaster?
Is that Mary the daughter of John Perkins?
Is that Mary who was once engaged to George?
Didn’t George say she was a witch?
 but on one occasion, she heard, 
And these signs will accompany those who believe: in my name they will cast out demons; they will speak in new tongues; they will pick up serpents with their hands; and if they drink any deadly poison, it will not hurt them; they will lay their hands on the sick, and they will recover.
The...lights are dark.
Mother, you should know that … I’ve decided the same thing.
What do you know about him?
Well, you are looking better today.
I’m sorry Miss Perkins, but I am famished.
I have to check your bandages ….Captain.
Are you thirsty Captain?
Yes Miss.
, she sighed, 
Well, I should be back to my old self in no time!
What’s wrong with him?
He’s come down with a fever Mary.
, she paused and then said forcefully, seriously and wholeheartedly, 
Mary’s sleeping but I’ll let her know.
Where is he?
Will he come back?
George, the villagers everywhere tell me what a fine craftsman you are.
I just give them what they ask of me, God willing.
I would like to commission a small project for you.
What are your terms?
I’m still getting over the last one I chose Sir.
Miss Mary Bradbury.
I know it.
I appreciate your guidance Sir.
I need to see if I can get the white cloth but if not, I’ll get the blue one, excuse me a moment while I count my coins.
But I may only have a few pence, please be patient with me Good Sirs, go about your business while I check my purse.
savages
savages
He’s not going to come back to visit, is he, mother.
Don’t give up on love so easily as we do for the living who are already dead.
Madam.
You’re looking magnificent!
I’m not here as a patient now.
I would like to treat Mary to a ride on my little craft.
Mary has chores to finish, but after that she’ll be ready.
And do you have an escort young man?
I smell food!
I am a clerk if that counts as a writer.
Can I see you again?
Do you have any stories about your youth Captain Bradbury?
Yes, why?
Hilmorton is where Count Bacon’s family was from.
My best friend Margaret Jones was friends with Thomas Morton.
There’s so much I want to tell you Tom.
Mary, will you marry me?
Yes..When do you choose?
So you, you and your mother are, part of his Order?
Did you cook this pie Sir?
Tom, the pie is ok, it’s just me.
Sorry.
What’s has fallen over you?
Tom, I think we’re going to have a baby!
Apparently, those savages who he’s friends with picked him up and took him to their camp in hiding.
With all these arguments, it’s no wonder that God’s displeasure has been shown by riling up these savages against us.
It’s more than that Good Sir, it’s the abuses they’ve received at the hands of our …
I think they don’t want to give the Indians the idea that it’s still their land.
That’s why Williams got the boot, he was against taking it outright and giving it our name because they were taking offense to that.
They’re not producing anything, we’re the ones being taxed, we have to pay, we should be able to claim it by name like we would back in England.
Mother!
I guess around March?
No–
I don’t have any notion yet of whereabouts we would meet Mother.
That would be fine if you know the camp.
Mercy, this is Mary.
Good day to you Mary.
Good day to you Mercy.
Margaret!
I’ll now answer any questions you have been holding onto
What do you recommend for morning sickness?
Do you recommend raspberry leaf or yarrow before delivery time as a tonic to help contraction?
Either one or both work fine.
What about Mandrake?
Stretch forth your left hands.
I do.
Drink!
Jane Hawkins, where are you?
Here Master.
Our wills are one, so will I go and do as you have said.
Dorothy Talbye?
I will speak to you of your errand at our next meeting and if you do it well, I will give you and your companion both names and a standing in this our secret council of physic.
Now let us feast and celebrate amongst ourselves.
Good morning it is Goodwife Dyer!
Oh, do you practice physic then?
Of course dear, I’ve practiced physic for many years and all thanks to the Lord’s providence in giving us herbs for our maladies if only we would look and trust upon them with the guidance of his sweet Spirit.
Could you procure it for me?
Believe …
Believe in the power of my Art that I share with you this day?
Yes, I believe.
It goes down much easier with rosemary and mint, do you have some?
It doesn’t taste bad to me.
Oh thank you my dear Jane!
You’re just like a mother to me.
Can I get  you more clothes?
No need sister, we need more space, everyone except you, you and you please step away!
There there, this shall help.
It’s in distress.
Let’s leave this place,
You’ve done a fine job there.
But that cost me..
Mary told me once she could spark fire with a breath.
Can I get you some water?
How about some milk?
Sorry, what would you like?
Just relax Tommy
So have you picked a name if it’s going to be a girl yet?
I told you it’s not a girl but if it is, I’ll name her Isabella or after my mother.
I like Judith, it’s a good bible name.
I love you Mary my dear wife and I already know you love me.
Mary, your baby!
I know mother!
Where do you keep your salves and herbs?
In the box mother, you remember don’t you!
Where’s the box!?
It’s by my bed!
Silly me!
Wymond.
good job
So what shall we do?
Can Margaret be swayed?
No, she is more loyal to Mary than her own husband even though both of them have dissented.
What if instead we use the third plot in the Book of Power against our competitors where Margaret is found with a remedy that appears to poison her and that remedy is planted on Mary and we tip them to investigate Mary?
Where is Dorothy?
I don’t think she’ll be coming back.
So that is the task you gave her?
I have, the cattle are sick and her neighbors are quarrelling with her now.
, the man changed his voice into a kind sweet sounding old man: 
Can Mary start a fire without flint and only her words?
Will the accused step forth and give her name?
Margaret Jones
Guilty!
Do right and confess it!
Witch!
Tramp of the Devil!
How does the accused plea!?
ORDER!
So you admit it that you make medicines that are ineffectual.
No, …
But you said they were just licorice and anise and you pretense these as medicines and do nothing.
Yes
So you defraud people?
No!
Either you are defrauding people with ineffective medicine or you are making medicines that have effects.
Yes, they have effects.
So now you have tried to defraud this court and have reversed your statement!
Did Margaret Jones give you medicine?
Yes
Did it make you sick?
Yes
Did she say what was in the medicine?
Licorice and
For a second time, who is Margaret Jones and did she give you medicine?
Yes
Did you give this Good man medicine?
Yes
But…
You are accused of malediction and curses towards those who do not use your physic that they will not heal and this has also been found self-evident by this man’s neighbor.
You are hereby sentenced to death!
job well done
Storm approaches!
We’re so saddened about father, we knew he was weak with age but in our hope, we were taken by surprise.
Mother, you must not talk that way.
Mary, I give you the mother’s secret, you have the most children of the three of my daughters, so I give you my receipt book and my notes on the herbs
You will also need this some day.
Let me see my grandchildren.
Tommy
Jake
Freddy
Tommy please have a seat!
could you please move over?
Here he goes again.
Hi Tommy, can we hide with you?
I don’t want you to see my hiding place.
, promised Freddy, 
Let’s all three of us hide in there Tommy.
Tommy, the special son of Headmaster Tommy
Hahahahaha!
HEEEEEELP!
If you rat on us, next time we’ll throw you in the river and tell him the Indians ran off with you.
You can all come back now!
Cover him up.
I looked everywhere for you.
Wait, did either of you see Tommy?
Maybe he went back.
I’m extending recess..
Have any of you seen Tommy?
No Headmaster.
Frederick, did you see him?
He was playing with us but when we went to look for him, we couldn’t find him.
I need you to help me find him.
Tommy!
Last time we saw him was over here.
Tommy!
Tommy!
I’ll reward anyone who finds him.
no
, 
Go back and look again.
Who did this to …
School is dismissed!
Mary, douse the hearth fire and close the door and catch up with me!
Good Mother of Christ, what happened to Tommy?
Tommy, can you tell me what happened?
Please, tell me.
Why does everyone hate me?
Everyone doesn’t hate you.
It was Robby and Freddy.
Can I have a word with you headmaster?
Recess!
You snitched on us didn’t you.
You remember what we were going to do to you?
MOMMMMM!
There, now you look like the rat you are.
I’ll kill those bastards!
There will be no recess for the rest of the week.
Instead, I’m going to have you sing together indoors.
We will be copying what I write here on my board, one hundred times.
 then he told the rest of the class, 
I have to get back to teaching, go back with Thomas and get him cleaned up.
Those boys will not be coming back to our schoolhouse again.
Don’t let anyone else come up here.
Thomas Junior.
Yes mother?
Do you fancy any of the maidens at the meeting?
I guess so.
I know you’re young and not expected to suit these ladies yet, but something tells me you’re not going to.
Why do you say that mother?
, he cleared his throat as he tried to get it out. 
I can’t ..
Yes Mother.
Sorry for what Mother?
, Thomas looked downcast but she continued, 
Tom
Junior
Jack
Carr Island
Elizabeth!
Yes George?
Blood for our Prince!
Are you the same Mary Dyer that was here before?
I am the same Mary Dyer that was here the last General Court
You will own yourself a Quaker, will you not?
I own myself to be reproachfully so called.
Sentence was passed upon you the last General Court; and now likewise--You must return to the prison, and there remain till to-morrow at nine o'clock; then thence you must go to the gallows and there be hanged till you are dead.
This is no more than what thou saidst before.
I came in obedience to the will of God the last General Court, desiring you to repeal your unrighteous laws of banishment on pain of death; and that same is my work now, and earnest request, although I told you that if you refused to repeal them, the Lord would send others of his servants to witness against them.
Do you own yourself a prophetess too?
I speak the words that the Lord speaks to me.
Do you intend to speak here?
The Lord’s will is my sacrifice will open....
Nay, I cannot; for in obedience to the will of the Lord God I came, and in his will I abide faithful to the death.
For the wicked crime of heresy and for the conspiracy to destroy the church from within under the foul influence of the Devil, 
Do you have any last words, Mary Dyer?
Anyone else?
I urge you Mary to repent and to not be so deluded and carried away by the deceit of the devil!
Nay, man, I am not now to repent.
Would you at least have the elders pray for your soul?
I know never an Elder here.
Your friends here, can they pray for your soul by their own free will?
My Friends ah….
Captain Bradbury, please read the papers of the good constable.
Walter Barefoote, I hereby grant you power as deputy.
You do not have authority to do that!
You’ll pay for that!
Mary, I really must now tell you what happened this past week if you do not already know.
Fire.
How did that happen?
that should fix her!
There is indeed a motive then for her to take revenge.
We have to work our minds, hearts and arms and not our arms alone.
What about Hannah’s testimony then?
She agreed in Meddy’s story that they saw the smoke and were unable to quench the fire in time and had to cease their efforts.
Was she found guilty?
So Jake, do you need a place to stay?
Just the night for myself, my dear wife Elizabeth and the children, would they be trouble to stay a short season until I can rebuild?
Who is this my dear?
I beg your pardon Mister Carr, may I speak candidly to Rebecca for a moment?
I thought your wish today was for me to accompany you to town so you could find some saddles to fit you for your late husband’s  horses.
, she blushed seeing his jaw drop a bit, 
No William, stay.
I must not stay for your sake Rebecca but also for mine since I will not stay in the company of so rude a suitor.
, turning back to Rebecca again William turned to exit with the pains of rejection in his voice: 
James, I told you, I forgot he was taking me to get a saddle and riding boots when you were coming over.
What happened Will?
Carr?
full name dear, full name.
James Carr.
My, this is worse than I thought, but if fate be true, then this cannot stand.
Good day Pastor
Good day it is Captain Bradbury.
I have a letter from my son...
Oh?
For your daughter!
The Flower Lady
I have been awake, fearing wild beasts have entered my room, trying to take me in my sleep.
For how long?
All last week and up until this day.
Mister Carr, I have a suspicion that this is not a physical ailment at all.
I have also thought so a good while.
So who do you think may have behagged you?
I durst not say who because she is counted by all an honest woman.
Goodwife Bradbury.
Mary Bradbury, wife of Captain Bradbury?
The same you have said.
Wommy
Wha what does it mean?
It means, they are coming after me.
William has died.
Mary, if there’s anything I could ever do to repay your kindness, it is done.
Mary!
Please come out and have a couple words with me please?
George!
Are you hurt!?
What was that!
Did you see that?
What did you see?
Did you see the tusks on that thing?
It was huge!
Change of plans.
Move!
She’s placed a guardian
It’s her phantom.
She changed into the boar and charged you father.
I’ll bring complaints against her to the court if that’s what it takes.
The scheming sorceress, she shall pay for her dark arts against us.
Mary’s such a sweet lady, she couldn’t hurt a fly.
What do you mean a blue boar?
I don’t subscribe to that non-sense.
I don’t care how, I just want power.
Why do you want to know?
I must know if my husband is bewitched or not.
Is that it?!
Trying to tell me something?
I cannot be seen associated with this, this abominable trade, even though you work it for good, I want no one’s eyes to see me with it as I am a holy man called of God to teach his flock..
Goodwife Sibley, what matter do you have?
What do you want from me?
Yes Madam.
Do not suffer a witch to live.
It was Tituba, it is she who did it to me.
Did not the dog bark at you?
But he is not barking now, it was for the cause of those cakes you made, was it not?
Yes, Good Reverend  I made it to detect the witch.
I knew this would happen.
Do you think the Carrs or Putnams were upset about the money Thomas Oliver left her or the fact she’d marry his brother and continue to gain from it?
I heard it was little Ann Putnam, you know, Ann Carr’s daughter?
That reminds me, did you keep the hogs tied up today?
Ironic is it not?
What is?
You’re also just like your father Tim.
Constable Neale, what are you doing here at my home this fine day?
I shall go Tom.
I plead with you gentlemen, I say, slacken these cords will you?
I’m ordering you to slacken her cords!
Rob, I would do anything but that means anything to free Mary.
Patience and we will win this fight Tom.
Shoot first and ask questions later
Finally some law and order around here!
Hell fire it burns!
Deliver me from her dear Lord!
Stop Miss Bradbury.
Stop tormenting me!
Leave us!
She's choking me!
Look not upon us!
Her gaze it tears my flesh apart!
Stop this noise!
Sheriff, take Mrs Bradbury out.
I do your Honor.
Your name for the court?
Thomas Putnam, Jr.
What matter do you bring to the court?
I have complaint from John Bibber, my daughter, and Mary Walcott.
Will John Bibber take the stand?
Your name?
John Bibber.
I am a husbandman.
What have you to speak before this court?
How long has this been going on good husband?
Miss Putnam, would you give the names of these girls here afflicted?
Mary Walcott.
Elizabeth Hubbard, Elizabeth Booth, Mercy Lewis
Captain Bradbury your Honor.
They killed them!
Who killed ...who?
The executioners in Salem hung at least five women just days ago on Gallows Hill.
Who?
Rebecca Nurse, Susannah Martin, Elizabeth Howe, Sarah Good, Sarah Wildes.
The jurors for our Sovereign Lord and Lady, the King and Queen do present that Mary Bradbury, Wife of Captain Thomas bradbury of Salisbury, in the County of Essex entered upon the Twenty-Sixth day of July in the year aforesaid and divers other days and times as well before as after certain detestable arts called witchcraft and sorceries wickedly, maliciously and feloniously hath used, practiced and exercised at and in the township of Andover in the County of Essex aforesaid in upon and against one Timothy Swann of Andover in the county aforesaid husbandman, by which said wicked acts the said Timothy Swann upon the 26th day of July aforesaid and divers other days and times both before and after was and is tortured, afflicted, consumed, pined, wasted and tormented and also for sundry other acts of witchcraft by the said Mary Bradbury committed and done before and since that time against the peace of our Sovereign Lord and Lady the King and Queen, their crown and dignity and the form of the statute in that case made and provided,
Tom!
I have been working all day on getting you out of this rat’s nest.
Save the others then.
Major Pike, I take it you will be presenting the case for Mary Bradbury today?
Yes your Honor.
Court is adjourned,
We’ll now begin the case of Putnam and Walcott vs Bradbury.
Go ahead and read it then,
ew
Order!
Objection!
I now present Mary Warren for questions.
A long long time.
When did this happen?
It was that day we were here last time.
She told me her name was Miss Bradbury and that she came from Salisbury.
Is it the same woman sitting there?
Yes it is.
Objection!
How does she look at her now and answer so peacefully?
What did she do to you?
Did she afflict anyone else?
Oh yes, her appearance most grievously afflicted and tormented Mary Walcott, Sarah Bibber, Elizabeth Hubbard and Ann Putnam.
I believe in my heart that Miss Bradbury is a witch and that she has very often afflicted and tormented me and several others by her acts of witchcraft.
boar
behagged
Miss Walcott, what happened on the day of July 26th this year?
I do believe in my heart that Miss Bradbury is a most dreadful witch since she has been in prison, her appearance has come to me and tormented me also.
That is enough Miss Walcott.
We shall have an hour’s recess,
Please tell us the story of how John Carr died?
Objection, he is lying!
, he paused long seized by a moment of fear, 
I would like to have Samuel Endicott take my place at this time so as to question my daughter.
Come forward.
I would like to bring back Ann Putnam and Mary Walcott back to the stand for a recording of testimony and answers to questions I would like to ask them.
by her acts of witchcraft
Also, my uncle John Carr appeared to me in a winding sheet whom I very well knew in his lifetime.
What did he tell you?
He told me that Miss Bradbury had murdered him and that his blood did cry for vengeance against her.
Her appearance told me that it was she that made my father’s sheep to run away so that they were all lost and that she had killed my father’s heifer and also killed that horse that he took such delight in.
Mrs Bradbury!
That is all your honor, I object to this personal attack that which if I refuse not would make you all to think I did these detestable things to this girl I hardly know.
Mary Bradbury, wife of Captain Thomas Bradbury, having heard the testimonies presented both for and against you, and after a due consideration of evidence, this court has determined the verdict on the accusations made against you, in that Mary Bradbury is … 
guilty of all the accusations made in that she was found to be committing ….Sundry Acts of Witchcraft and Sorceries as forbidden by law and therefore subject to any penalties prescribed and justly passed in sentence for your crime.
On this day, the 9th of September, 1692, Having heard many witnesses and found the defendant guilty and convicted of Sundry Acts of Witchcraft and Sorceries, maliciously and feloniously used against the plaintiffs aforesaid and in defiance of the Crown, it is the Judgement of this court that Mary Bradbury is hereby sentenced to die by hanging at the gallows which is to be carried out on the 22nd day of September of this year, 1692 of our Lord.
Court Dismissed.
State your business.
I’m here to visit Mary Bradbury.
Who are you?
Captain Thomas Bradbury, her husband.
Wait here
This way
Jacob is worried for you.
He’s looking even older than I am.
It may very well be so but he has always looked up to you and can’t bear the thought of you here and he’s been around the courts long enough to know that a little favor in the right hands can bring down any wall.
What about Reverend John Hale?
How did they get past the two guards?
First stop, Amesbury.
Hold on tight!
Powww-w-w
Good to be home Tom
Oh, I definitely will.
write a little bit every day
Why are you crying?
I escaped the gallows, the saddest witch is not the witch who dies but the witch who lives to see the other witches die.
What is a witch exactly?
What does it mean to you?
Someone who has been acquainted with grief and who by the Lord’s grace, learns wisdom.
