Anno Domini March, Monday. 

Easter Monday. Riding at the C!owes, near the Isle of 
Wight, in the Arhetla, a ship of three hundred and fifty tons, 
whereof Capt. Peter Milbome was master, being manned with 
fifty-two seamen, and twenty-eight pieces of ordnance, (the 
wind coming to the N. by W. the evening before,) in the morning there came aboard us Mr. Cradock, the late governor, and 
the masters of his two ships, Capt. John Lowe, master of the 
Ambrosey and Mr. Nicholas Hnrlston, master of the Jewd, and 
Mr. Thomas Beecher, master of the Talbot, (which three ships 
rode then by us, the Charles, the Mayflower,^ the WiUiain and 
Francis, the HopeweU, the Whale, the Success and the Trial 
being still at Hampton* and not ready,) when, upon conference, 
it was agreed, that (in regard it was imcertain when the rest of 
the fleet would be ready) these four ships should consort to- 
gether; the ArheHa to be admiral,' the TaJbot vice-admiral, 
the Ambrose rear-admiral, and the Jeml a captain; and ac- 
cordingly articles of consortship were drawn between the said 
captains and masters; whereupon Mr. Cradock took leave of 
us, and our captain gave him a farewell with fom* or five shot. 

About ten of the clock we weighed anchor and set sail, with 
the wind at N., and came to an anchor again over against Yarmouth, 
and the TaJbot weighed likewise, and came and anchored by us. Here we met with a ship of Hampton, called 
the Plantation, newly come from Virginia. Our captain saluted her, and she us again; and the master, one Mr.  
, came on board our ship, and stayed with us about 
two or three hours, and in the meantime his ship came to 
an anchor by us. 
Li the morning, about ten of the clock, 
the wind being come to the W. with fair weather, we weighed 
and rode nearer Yarmouth. When we came before the town, 
the castle put forth a flag; our captain saluted them, and 
they answered us again. The Talbot, which rode farther off, 
saluted the castle also. 

Here we saw, close by the shore of the Isle of Wight, a 
Dutch ship of one thousand tons, which, being bound to the 
East Indies, about two years since, in passing through the 
Needles, struck upon a rock, and being forced to rim ashore

to save her men, could never be weighed since, although she 
lies a great height above the water, and yet she hath some men 
aboard her. 

Wednesday, 31.] The wind continued W. and S. W. with 
rain. Our captain and some of our company went to Yar- 
mouth for supply of wood and other provisions; (our captain 
was still careful to fill our empty casks with water). 

Thursday, April 1.] The wind continued very strong at 
W. and by S. with much rain. 

Friday, 2.] We kept a fast aboard our ship and the Talbot. 
The wind continued still very high at W. and S. and rainy. 
In the time of our fast, two of our landmen pierced a rundlet 
of strong water, and stole some of it, for which we laid them 
in bolts all the night, and the next morning the principal was 
openly whipped, and both kept with bread and water that day. 

Saturday, 3.] The wind continued still at W. and with 
continual storms and rain. 

Sunday, 4.] Fair, clear weather. In the morning the wind 
W. and by N., but in the afternoon S. S. W. This evening 
the Talbot weighed and went back to the Cowes, because her 
anchor would not hold here, the tide set with so strong a race. 

Monday, 5.] The wind still W. and S. with fair weather. 
A maid of Sir Richard Saltonstall^ fell down at the grating by 
the cook-room, but the carpenter's man, who occasioned her 
fall unwittingly, caught hold of her with incredible nimbleness, 
and saved her; otherwise she had fallen into the hold. 

Tuesday, 6.] Capt. Burleigh, captain of Yarmouth castle, 
a grave, comely gentleman, and of great age, came aboard us 
and stayed breakfast, and, offering us much courtesy, he de- 
parted, our captain giving him four shot out of the forecastle 
for his farewell. He was an old sea captain in Queen Eliza- 
beth's time, and, being taken prisoner at sea, was kept prisoner 
